






SEARCHING FOR A FORMER CLARITY
Walter Thornton























NOW
The boy watched the priest intently as he knelt on the dry earth. His calloused hands moved with dextrous grace, pulling the potatoes free from the earth, shaking their dirt off and placing them in the woven basket. The light of the day was fast fading and the boy stood in the priest's elongated shadow, watching him intently. He stood in awe, and his fear of the man caused his words to stick in his throat.	
	"Put them in the doorway".
The boy moved, he brought the salvaged glass bottles he held over to the cottage, placing them in the open door frame. He hurried back to the garden, resuming his place in the shadow of the priest. 
	The prest noted the boy's presence with a  glance and returned to his work. He inhaled deeply, breathing in the evening air. He loved the smell of the earth and it's offerings to man. The smoke from the town's cooking fires filled the air and he loved that as well. A fleeting thought of his childhood crossed his mind: his father building a campfire as he and his brother looked on. His reminiscing halted his work as memory invaded his awareness, bringing with them the longing and melancholia that so often acccompanies a passing smell. A longing for a time past, a longing for the world as it was. 
	He blinked. He coughed, turned his head and spat, and resumed his work. The boy stared down at the moist spot in the dirt, the spittle streaked with red. 
	"Mama says you have the cancer."
The priest followed the boy's gaze and taking a handful of dirt, kneaded his phlegm and his life's blood into the earth, he turned to look at the boy. Wiping his hands on his pantlegs, he leaned back on his heels, his cool blue eyes seemed to cut through the boy. 
	"Maybe, maybe not. No way to tell really."
	"Mama says you are going to die soon."
	The boy tensed, thinkning he had made a terrible mistake, but the hard lines of the man's face melted as he smiled and then laughed. 
	"What else does your mama say?"
	"Mama says you're a priest without a God, a priest without a church." He had been emboldened by the priest's smile, but the smile now faded. The sternness resuming it's place on the man's face. He was afraid again. He wanted to run, to escape the priest's penetrating gaze, but he was frozen in place, transfixed by the man's presence.
	Seeing his fear, the priest smiled again. 
	"Tell your mama she's got a big mouth."
	The boy opened his mouth as if to say something, then shut it again. 
	"Go on, get out of here, I'll see you on the morrow."
	The boy darted away down the footpath, the priest returned to his work, consoling himself with his laughter. 
	It was completely dark when he carried the basket of potatoes into the cottage. He set them down on the table and went back to the doorway to retrieve the three glass bottles the boy had brought. Two were returns from the people in the town, the Coca-Cola bottle and a brown beer bottle. The third was new, though, probably discovered by the boy in his wanderings. It was clear and no bigger than his hand, and a tiny lid screwed onto it's tiny mouth. It was an airplane bottle, except there were no more airplanes. Nor would there be for quite some time, he thought. He brought the bottles to the rear of the cottage where a wooden barrel sat, and set them on the floor. He pulled a plug from a hole at the top of the barrel, grabbed the Coke with one hand and tilted the barrel with  the other, catching the amber liquid as it poured from the hole. When the bottle was full, he set it down, grabbed the brown bottle and filled it. From the shelf on the wall, he took down a box and from it selected two wooden pegs, carved to fit the slender bottlenecks. Sealing the bottles with the homemade stoppers, he set them in a cupboard. The airplane bottle he put on the shelf with the box of stoppers, he would find a better use for it. You couldn't fit enough whiskey in there to warm a mouse. 
	In his iron stove there were hot coals from earlier. He reached in front of it and rekindled the fire. Coughing suddenly wracked his whole body, he had to stand quickly so as to not lose his balance. It passed, but the fire he felt in his lungs did not. He had intended to wash and fix himself supper, but he was suddenly so tired. Instead he filled a glass with whiskey and sat in front of the open stove sipping his drink. It worked quickly, the warmth engulfed him, body and mind, and his thoughts melted into nothingness.
	That night he dreamed. 
	He was with his grandfather in the city of his youth. Buildings that no longer were, towered over him. There was a celebration in the city, one of the the city's teams had won a great contest. From the sky rained countless pieces of paper. They fell in his hair, on his shoulders, covering everything. The noise of the city parade overwhelmed him. A crush of people filled the streets, packed shoulder to shoulder, the crowd flowed like water with waves and eddies. He clung to his grandfathers hand as  he rode above the crowd on his shoulders. They moved toward the edge of the wide street, cutting through the crowd. His grandfather lifted him overhead setting him down on his feet. The entrance to the underground loomed before them, the steps that descended to the railways under the street.
	His grandfather said something. He could not hear over the din of the crowd. He could only see his lips move. He shook his head, not understanding.
	"We have to go now, we have to beat the crowd or we'll never get home."
	He still only heard a few of the words, but he understood all the same. 
	The priest awoke an hour before dawn. the coughing started almost a year ago. At some point he realized it was only going to get worse, and thus began the struggle with his own mortality. Ever since the wars, he was convinced that death was the final act, a great nothingness. There was no beyond or after. Life was and then wasn't. His heart of hearts yearned for this oblivion, and he searched it out in venial ways, but it was this oblivion that he dreaded. He no longer wanted to live, a stranger in a strange land, but he surely did not want to die. 
	The sickness in his body cared naught for what he wished. It marched forward with an unstoppable progression, blackening his insides, spreading pain and weakness where there had been strength and health. His time was short and so his subconscious had rendered a decision. He would return to the place of his birth and he would look upon the wreakage of that great city. He would travel to the coast, he would find the house of his youth, and if it still stood, he would end his journey there. 
	A little after dawn the boy arrived with a five-galloon bucket of fresh water from the well. He set it along the outside wall of the cottage and went looking for the priest. He found him in the garage out back, saddling his horse. The boy stood there, awaiting instruction.
	"I have to go into town today. You can go home."
	"Yessir"
	"Bring yourself and your mama back for supper."
	The boy ran off as the priest mounted the great brown mare. He gave the reins a tug and nudged the beast in the direction the boy went. The footpath widened into an overgrown driveway. The asphalt was broken into countless pieces and wild grass grew up through every crack, leaving the driveway unrecognizable. It turned into a lane that headed into the heart of the town. The only remnants of the road it had been was a rusted street sign that clung to life. 
	The old leather saddlebags strapped to the horse held the many bottles of whiskey that was his to trade. It was enough to acquire everything he would need for his journey. Everything else he would leave to the boy and his mother. Although he had vied against it, he loved them, the boy and his mother, but the conventions he deplored prevented him from giving them more of himself. The vows of hs youth were empty promises to an empty God. They had all been broken as if they were nonexistant, yet the tradition that kept him apart , the seperatness that he owned pushed them away. He loathed the lonliness, the voluntary isolation, but he could not escape it. It was as if his non-existant god kept rebuilding the walls he would destroy. Like a babel in the inverse. 
	They would go on with out him, for better or worse, there was no choice in the matter. The woman had the means to survive in the town: his detachment had fostered her independence, and it made it easier now. His departure was inevitable. All departures are inevitable. 
	The town was nothing more than a collection of houses loosely surrounding the main road. The short stretch of road in the heart of town was maintained as well as could be, but still looked more like blackened gravel than the asphalt it was. 
	Ahead of him the Stars and Stripes flew atop aa freshly painted flagpole in the front of the minister's church. He could never overestimate the people's ability to believe in that which no longer was. He rode past it with a glance, his arrogance allowing no more to be thought of it. He had a number of stops to make and he intended to be home int he early afternoon. It was not market day, so he had to go to the houses of those he needed to trade with. All but the chemist, who worked daily in the brick building that had once housed a post office. Even the tinkerer lived above his general store. 
	When he rode out of town a few hours later, he had what he needed. The chemist had repacked a number of spent thirty-caliber shell casings as well as the few rare forty-fives. The chemist had also filled the priest's airplane bottle with laudenum for when the pain comes, and it would come. 
	Also, along the way he had acquired pasta, nuts, dried fruits and a large supply of venison jerky. In the general store he found a canvas tarp and some cord, a new tinderbox, and the most precious and expensive item: a plastic bottle filled with lighter fluid for his ancient brass lighter. 
	At his cottage, he wrapped his forty-five caliber pistol in an oil cloth and packed it alongside his provisions. He added to these a few silver coins from the last century and a number of other items. 
	The boy and the woman took the news as well as could be expected. The woman knew, had known, as only a woman can. That night they made their good-byes and the priest prayed in the woman's church to the only god he knew. 
#
7	He set out to go at first light. They did not see him off. He dug the heels of his freshly oiled boots into the sides of his horse and trotted down the road towards town. A few minutes outside the village, he turned north at an intersection and continued on at a slow canter. The litter of a past age was more apparent here cars were scattered alongside the two lane road, but being so close to the town, they had been pushed off to the side to allow for the passage of the occasional wagon. Up ahead was an overpass, he steered the horse off the road and up a steep embankment and onto the highway. He had passed this way recently but he had not been on the highway for a number of years. Not much had changed in the intervening years, only the steady invasion by mother nature into the kingdom once controlled by men. Vegetation crawled through every crack in the asphalt, forcing the broken pieces to splinter and spread further. What had once been a stretch of smooth blacktop was now a river of grass snaking through the thicker vegetation that had engulfed the highway's once grass berm. There was a  path through, a track as wide as a wagon where the wild grass was kept at bay. There were very few travellers, but those that there were, were enough to maintain the trail and the horse followed it easy enough with little guidance.
	Here, there were hundreds of cans lining the highways. The nearest city had been only twenty miles west of here, the cans testifying to the mass exodus from the city so long ago. Most of the escapees found nowhere to go, as every route was gridlocked, and their vehicles' salvation quickly became their very own mausoleums. 


























AGO
8	He remembered that time as if it were yesterday. He had a church in the suburbs, and a  handful of his parishoners had sheltered there. There was an older woman, bent with age but maintaining a stoic presence. She was a good and virtuous soul with an almost endless, perservering faith. On her lap she held her granddaughter, trembling as explosions fell closer and closer. The air in the church was hot and dank and smelled of fire. The few that had remained behind were huddled in the church's nave. It was dark, the only light the many votive candles throwing their red glow against the lifesize statues, casting long shadows across the nave. The priest sat, listening, waiting for the end to come, but it never did, for him at least. 
	The little girl began to sob.
	"Hush, babygirl, there is nothing to fear, God isn't going to let anything happen to us."
	"Are you sure?"
	"Of course I'm sure, everything is going to be alright. Rest now."
	Even then, in the earlier years of the death, his cynicism had begun. What was so special about they in the church, that they should be spared? He remembered Sodom and Abraham pleading for the lives of the innocent. Abraham reminding the Lord that a just God wouldn't kill the innocent with the wicked. Reminding. Nothing like a god that forgets to be just, he had thought. There was an explosion so close that plaster and dust fell from the ceililng and the floor shook beneath their feet. The girl began to cry again. He went to her and layed his hand on her forehead. She relaxed under his touch and her cries softened to quiet whimpers. He sat back down on the kneeler, rebuking himself. He assumed the stoicism of the old woman. Who was he to question providence, to attempt comprehension of the divine will? He put aside his doubt and prayed for his people. 
	As the horse found it's way, he thought that those were better times. They were hard years filled with pain and loss. War, disease and famine were everywherre, but in him there still burned the fires of hope and faith, he had then a clarity of purpose.
	







































NOW
9	When the sun reached it's zenith in the sky, he stopped to rest. When he dismounted he fell into a fit of coughing. He spat on the asphalt and stepped up onto the bumper of an old sports car and sat on it's hood. He wasn't hungry, but the horse was! He got up, pulled a pint of whiskey from one of the leather saddlebags and gently slapped the horse on it's hindquarters, and resumed sitting. The horse found it's way to the tall grass and grazed there, making a  meal of the foliage, and the priest made a meal of the whiskey. 
	The hood of the car was warm to the touch in the noonday sun and it felt good on his backside. He capped the whiskey and placed the bottle on the bumper and lay back on the hood. He felt good. Every bit of him was warm and his mind reeled from the first rush of pleasure that the whiskey brang. 
	He must have dozed, for when he opened his eyes the sun was no longer directly above him. He stood up, looking around for the horse, and found it wandering on the grass a few paces down the road. He was still mildly intoxicated and when he mounted the horse, he still felt that divine warmth throughout his body. He rode east with  the sun at his back and the mountains in the distance before him. 
	He felt good the rest of the day, and he buzzed with an excitment he had not felt for some time. It was the excitment that comes from a beginning of sorts, refreshment and newness. He pushed on that night, well into dusk. He would have looked for shelter in the ruins of nearby towns, but that required leaving the highway and it was too dark by then. Instead he found a pick-up truck to make camp in. He lowered the tailgate, set his bedroll and belongings on it and tied the horses' reins to the guardrail. By the light of the moon he gathered wood and built a small fire in the road. He boiled wild rice and ate it plain, chewed venison jerky spiced with hot peppers and washed his meal down with whiskey. Satiated, he fixed his bedroll and laid down in the bed of the truck. The firelight faded quickly as the last of the wood was consumed. He stared into the night sky. The sheer number and array of stars was breathtaking. The lack of ambient light made even the Milky Way visible. It was a minor consolation to the few that survived civilization, the night sky returned to the beautiful and majestic that it must have been before the age of electric light. 
	He pondered how the light now reaching him started it's journey, eons ago. How each photon carried it's minute energy across both time and space to arrive here on this singular place. The rock he sat upon hurtling towards the infinately expanding edge of the universe, even while doing it's strange dance with the sun and moon. And if indeed it was truly infinite, that somewhere, across the vastness there was another him staring back, camped atop another rock racing towards the same nothingness. And in this infinitness, all the range of possibilities would, no, must exist. A multitude of Earths, each with it's own unique history differing only one iota from the next. He wondered if, on some of those Earths, Jesus didn't die on a tree. Perhaps he came down off the cross and smote the Romans and denied us salvation by his death. Poor bastards, doomed for eternity by randomness and the laws of physics. He turned his head and let sleep take him. 
	When he looked down the road toward the rising sun, the mountains appeared to move in the shimmer of heat that rose from the asphalt. It would be a hot one, he thought. He had broken his fast and was repacking his gear when he spied a cowboy hat in the cab of the pick-up. The truck was likely older than he was and it's locks were stuck with rust. he took a chunk of asphalt and threw it through the driver's side window, reached in and grabbed the hat. He shook the dust and broken glass from it and put it on his head. It fit perfectly. It was a black Stetson faded with age, the same as those worn by the gunslingers in the Spaghetti Westerns of his youth. He reached back into the cab and tilted the rear-view mirror toward himself. He smiled, mounted his horse and resumed his journey. 
	He had shared his canteen with the horse, so at the next exit he veered off the highway in search of fresh water. The road here was like every other, a path where the grass had not grown as thick as elsewhere, and he followed it for a few miles through the hilly country. Up ahead he could hear running water and when he crested the hill he was climbing he looked out upon a broad valley. At the base of the hill ran a river with a small town abutting it. A small bridge of  steel and concrete construction spanned the river. It was in disrepair, but passable. The priest dismounted the horse and led it across the bridge. On the far side he turned on the road and led the horse down a  steep embankment to the water's edge. He shucked off his boots and waded into the cool water, stopping to fill his canteen. He sat on a warm rock, putting on his boots while the horse drank, and when he was done they both clambored up the embankment into the little town. 
	The town's main road ran parallel to the river with a strip of businesses and houses between them. Across the road the houses lined the side streets that formed a perfect grid. The town had been abandoned many years before, but despite being overgrown, there was no major damage to any of the structures. 
	There was not a single car in the town, it seemed as if everyone had just up and left without a  trace. He approached a small grocery store on the main road, and found the door open. He took one look at the barren shelves and knew that he would find nothing. He was not the first and surely not the last. He tried a drugstore next and finally a convenience store with the same results. He knew that he would fare better with the houses. He left the horse tied to a streetlamp and ventured down a side street. 
	He hit paydirt in the fifth house he tried. In a cabinet over the kitchen sink he found a jar of freeze dried coffee, still sealed. He took it and a ceramic coffee mug and hurried back to the horse, barely containing his excitment. He boiled water over a small fire there in the main street and made himself the first cup of real coffee he had in years. He had had chicory, but not the real thing, coffee being so rare these days.
	He sat and had lunch there in the street, and made a second cup of joe this time with a heavy shot of whiskey. He felt fine and he thought he might bathe in the river. When he finished he made his way down the street toward what looked like a park. As he approached he could make out the rusted remnants of a swingset and a children's slide. He tentatively sat on the plastic seat of the swing, adding his weight slowly to test the rusted chain. It held. He rocked back and forth slowly imagining in his mind's eye children playing and swinging, running with carefree abandon. He could almost hear their cries, the  laughter of a world that no longer was. 
	Ahead of him, across from the park, was a two story brick building with large glass windows running the length of the building. He sat rocking, dragging his boots in the dirt, but when he realized what the building was, he strode quickly in disbelief. He could make out through the glass racks upon racks of books. He left the horse tied to the handle of a box that had once dispensed newspapers and climbed the steps to the library. 
13	The brass hinges of the large door creaked as he pulled it open. Rays of light pierced the darkness illuminating the swirling dust arisen after many years of resting. The air was thick with the dust, but dry, the structure having kept the elements at bay. Unlike the grocery and other buildings, the library looked as it might have many years before. The chaos of the world having missed this small corner of the earth. He moved to the room with the windows  and ran his hand across the bindings of a row of books, kicking up dust as he walked. There was an incalculable wealth of knowledge here, knowledge that the world has lost, or forgotten. He imagined the town he had lived in for so many years, what just a handful of books would mean to it's citizens. Medicine, engineering, husbandry. He remembered at the beginning of after, lawyers becoming farmers overnight, accountants turned smiths, priests now bootleggers. How different it was, how different it would become. 
	















AGO
JB1	The emergency broadcast  had not said to leave the city, but it didn't have to. They all knew what was coming, what was on the horizon. So when Joe sat behind the wheel of his pick-up with his brother Ben and his father beside him, they made it exactly a half a mile from their house. The road curved around the outer edge of their plan of homes exiting onto the main road at the crest of the hill, marking the boundary of their tiny neighborhood in the section of suburbia. Here too is where they stopped, coming upon two lanes of traffic, miles long, bumper to bumper in every direction as everyone tried to escape the greater metropolitan area. The would be escapees, facing each way, all ways, as every inhabitor with means took to the streets, looking for some way out, anywhere being the only goal of a frantic population. It was at this intersection that the shiny blue pick-up came to rest, stopping at the green light. Joe,not bothering to sound his horn, useless amid the hundreds of other blaring horns, the angry shouts of countless drivers stuck in this strange funeral procession. And funeral procession it was, it became as the hot streaks of fire began to fall from the sky. The explosions began, bright hot flashes in all directions, and the people who just a moment ago were pounding their steering wheels were now out of their cars, running, screaming, their movements seemingly as directionless as the storm of fire that lit the sky. The three men stared out of the windshield, Joe gripping and ungripping the steering wheel with his sweaty hands. A chunk of street a few hundred yards in front of them suddenly disappeared, taking with it dozens of cars, sending a column of steel and rock and dust into the air, and then the debris was raining down on them, the ping-pong as tiny pieces of rock and steel pockmarked the truck's hood, cab and bed with the dolemitic hail. There was the dull thud too of something else, something heavier, hitting the top of the cab above them, rollling forward withan asymetric thu-dum, thu-dum. The arm was not severed so much as it was torn from some large man's body, and as it slid down the windshield, a trail of blood in it's wake, Joe, Ben and Jack could see the perfectly pressed white shirtsleeve on the arm, the gold cufflinks and the expensive gold watch. Joe thought, fleetingly, that he had recently seen one of those watches, maybe in a magazine. 
	"Let's get back to the house",  their dad said, and both Joe and Ben detected just the slightest hint of fear in their stolid, ever-strong, ever-courageous father. Joe turned in his seat, looking out the rear-window. The cars had lined up behind him, trapping them in, the cars behind as in front, mostly driverless as would be motorists abandoned their vehicles, and fled on foot. "We'll have to walk", Ben seemed almost frantic, seeing his father's cool demeanor beginning to crack, that strength, that iron will they so idolized, the basis of their own strong personalities. 
	They left the truck where it sat, still running, and began hurrying down the hill back towards their house, except as they moved, they realized that chance would dictate that they would most likely not have a house to return to . All about them, stretches of houses were gone, just gone. A black emptiness, charred earth where they had stood, and those houses that remained were burning, the flames jumping from one to the next of the closely spaced homes. The hot fire sucking the oxygen from the air, the smoke, the heat making the simple act of breathing difficult, slowing them. Jack stopping to wretch, the hot smoky air searing his lungs. The shelling had not abated, and as they rounded the long curve of their street and looked upon their small plot of earth, they saw their house was no more. And as if to accent this thought, a long burning piece of timber fell from the sky before them, landing on the black patch that had been their lawn, the fire from the beam sending a shower of sparks towards them forcing them to shield their eyes. They looked at each other briefly, then back at  their once was house, and turned back up the street. 
JB2	They were climbing back up the hill toward where they had parked, following a long line of empty cars, some still running, some with open doors. They were passing a vinyl-sided, split-level house, all ablaze, the only house on the block that still resembled a house, when it exploded, a mass of shrapnel slicing through the air in a radius of death. Ben screamed, sending a string of profanity back at the house in symbolic retaliation. 
	"What happened?" Ben had sat beside a parked car, leaning against the bumper, the tires having melted into the pavement. He was holding his leg, blood had soaked through his pants, it's source a triangular shred of glass that protruded from Ben's leg. "Oh shit! Easy son, take it easy, we can fix you up". Ben was biting his lip, rocking back and forth holding his leg, eyes watering, a scream on his lips. "Oh it hurts, it hurts." He rocked back and forth, repeating the words. 
	Jack stood up, looking around him, there was nothing but death in every direction. "We have to find somewhere to go, some kind of shelter." "There is nowhere."Joe was teasing his brothers' pants off, revealing the gash with the glass knife sticking out. He stood and whispered to his father, never taking his eyes off the wound, the blood welling in the spaces between the glass and the flesh. They bent together, Jack speaking in his younger sons ear, diverting his attention while Joe carefully grabbed the piece of glass between thumb and forefinger and pulled back sharply, freeing the blood streaked object. Ben's cry pierced the air, strange and high, his father holding down on his shoulders as his body jerked upward. Ben lay back down, his face contorted, his head cradled on his father's lap while Joe wrapped his brother's leg with his own ripped shirt, staunching the blood that pooled on the pavement. 
	The shelling had not stopped, rather it had moved elsewhere, the red streaks still cutting across the dark and hazy sky, but landing further away in the distance. They walked slowly, father and son suporting brother. "We are going to need some medical supplies, bandages and antibiotics." Jack spoke to his sons. "The broadcast said there would be medical care at the refugee center, probably doctors or nurses. It may take us a few days to get there." He looked at his son, concerned. Ben was struggling to walk, looking as if he would pass out at any moment. "We're going to have to stop soon. If we get up the road a little further, I can see if there is anything left of the mall or the shopping plaza." He looked at Joe then Ben thinking, "Okay, but we stay together." They continued down the road, great sections of asphalt missing, as stretches  of road turned into small craters and large piles of twisted molten metal were strewn about. At the base of a small rise there had once been an intersection with a  smaller road winding off into the mall complex. The intersection was gone, but the road picked up again travelling downhill and ending at a pile of concrete a half an acre wide. The parking garage had gone from three layers to one in an instant, crushing hundreds of cars and the mall itself looked as if God had reached down and hollowed out it's insides with an ice cream scooper. The white block of it's outer walls remained standing in some places like  ramparts of a modern castle, it's roof mostly gone, allowing Jack and his sons to look down into the ruins of that commercial center. They stopped for only a moment to look down upon the wreckage, before continuing along the road, skirting the wide crater where the intersection had been, the two men supporting the third. 
JB3	At the crest of the hill, they stopped again. The shopping plaza set atop a series of wide, man-made plateaus, one set upon another like some urban steppes, built from slag and coke by-products of a century of steel production. Jack looked over at his sons, "Well?" Ben's face was pale, elsewhere, and no answer from him was forthcoming. He wanted so badly to just lay down where he was. To rest, right there on the pavement, if they could only just let him sit for a minute. He was lightheaded and his head was lolling about. He was so weak. "Just leave me." he was trying to say, but the words didn't seem to come out. His lips were moving but no words formed in his parched mouth. "Ben, Ben," he heard his name from a  distance. Through his half shut eyes he saw his father shaking him. "Ben!" His attention came into focus. He stilled his head, blinking. "We're almost there," Joe was saying. But Ben looked about, recovering himself and thought that that was a lie. They were not almost there, they were not almost anywhere. There seemed to be blackness and nothingness everywhere. He laughed. First a low slow laugh, then harder. He looked at his brother, now fully in charge of his senses once more. He looked at his brother, nodding to to the remains of the shopping square, "And, uh...," his voice thick with sarcasm, "where exactly is is there?"
	They cut off the main road, toward the heart of the plaza, passing the shell of a  bank, a restaurant, a discount store and one of those places that changes your oil in fifteen minutes. Each place was the blackened hull of it's former self. The road wound past these and rounded the corner of a huge crescent shape mini-mall, a long parking lot, dotted with a few abandoned cars, stretched the length of the brick facade. The building faded away at it's far end as the structure progressively went from intact to rubble. The end closest to them housed a grocery store, but the end furthest from them was  ablaze, the fire moving quickly leaving the charred skeleton of the building in it's wake. 
JB4	The three men stopped,  eyes searching. 
	"Wait here." Joe began to run towards the glass entrance to the grocery, his father and wounded brother yelling after him. 
	"Joe, don't!" 
	He ignored their cries, forcing open one set of double glass doors, then another. The hot, smoky air hit him, searing his lungs. He couldn't see more than a few feet in front of him, but he had been shopping here since he was a child. He knew the pharmacy lay ahead and to the right, and when he ran through the checkout lane he cut to the right knocking over a rack of magazines, the kind where for a dollar you can read about the latest alien abduction or dead celebrity sighting. Almost falling, he recovered himself, running the aisle parallel to the facade, the smoke thicker, darker, the closer he got to his destination. He reached the end of the aisle and he saw it, the great wall of flame consuming everything in it's path, moving with a steadfast determination, billowing thick clouds of toxic smoke. 
	The fire was moving fast towards the pharmacy area which lay before him, the heat making it's way towards him, everything hot. He thought he smelled hair burning the pungent scent breaking through the smoke for but a second, before it was gone. He reached for the handle of the door leading behind the counter and pulled his hand back as he felt his flesh burning on the hot metal. Beside the counter there was another entrance, a half-door that swung in when he kicked it. He pulled his t-shirt up over his mouth and held it there with one hand as he ran into the pharmacy's rear, the air smokier, better here. His lungs were burning, every gasp an effort. He looked around frantically, peering into the blackness, grabbing random bottles from shelves with both hands, looking quickly at each then tossing them aside. 
	He was looking for Penicillin and he found it between Paroxetine and Phenobarbital. He grabbed the large bottle and continued scanning the sheles, Singulair, Trazadone, he couldn't find it. Vicodin. And then he realized it was probably shelved under it's generic name. He thought for a moment he heard his name being called in the background through  the smoky haze. He came to the end of the aisle, rounding the corner, looking for the "H's". He found a bottle of Hydrocodone and rushed the rest of the way up the aisle, when he heard a low moan from somewhere behind him. He turned, straining his eyes, and he saw her. 
	The woman was crawling on the floor, coughing, oercome by the smoke. He rushed to where she lay, bleeding, to help her. 
	"Come on lady," 
	He wrapped his arm around hers and pulled her to her feet, forcing her to walk,dragging her past the counter. Her feet faltered, tripping over themselves, but he continued pulling her, dragging the coughing woman towards the entrance. They heard a deafening crash behind them as something, some part of the structure, fell under the advance of the fire. He heard his name being called again and he tried to respond, the words turning to a hacking cough that wracked his body. He dropped a bottle of the pills, his body beginning to not cooperate with his mind. He bent to grab them almost pulling the woman down with him. The smoke was thinner now, and an arm was now grabbing him pulling him up and forward, the woman in tow. 
	His father had come in and now pulled the two through the glass entryway to the fresher air outside. They collapsed on the sidewalk, the girl on her hands and knees, gasping for the clean, fresh air, their faces, clothes, hair covered with black soot. Jack knelt by his son.
	"Are you okay? Are you okay?" 
	He kept repeating it until Joe could finally speak. 
	"Yeah." He began to look around, "Where's Ben?" 
	"He's laying in that car over there." 
	Jack looked at the woman. Her features were Hispanic, her dark olive skin black with soot, matching her long black hair. 
	"Who's this?" 
	"I don't know, she was in the store." 
	The woman was beginning to recover, her breathing evening out. 
	"I'm Maria", she said with a thick Central American accent. 
	"Thanks for saving my ass", she said slowly, brushing the soot from her clothes, coughing again while she stuck out her hand, "Nice to meet ya."
JB5	The trio headed back to where Ben was laying in the backseat of an Oldsmobile almost as old as he was. He sat up when he saw them, becoming suddenly lightheaded. He grabbed onto the door to steady himself. 
	"I think you lost a lot of blood bro,” Joe said, his eyes fixed on his brother's ashen pallor. 
	"It hurts, bad." 
	"I might be able to do something about that." 
	He held up the two bottles of pills shaking them like some primitive musical instruments. Ben nodded gratefully. 
	"Who's this?"
	"I'm Maria, I was uh, shopping, and well, I guess the smoke got the best of me." 	"Nice to meet you." Ben said, attempting to laugh despite his lack of strength.
	"We're going to need to find someplace to go, to hole up.", Jack looked at his sons, the woman. "Are you from around here Miss....Maria?"
	"I live downtown." He gave her a sharp look, a hint of empathy in his eyes. "There ain't no downtown anymore. Did you have someone there?"
	"No, it was just me"
	"Well, you are welcome to stick with us, though we are going to have to go somewhere, and we sure as hell can't stay here."
	"What about the refugee center, at the airport?"
	"Look at your brother, Joe. He ain't walking nowhere like that." 
	"How about there?" Maria was pointing to a  huge white building about a half mile away, across the vast parking lot. It was a movie theatre, the kind where they play second run movies for a discounted price and it looked intact. 
	"That might work, one of these cars might even have the keys in them so we can drive your brother over there, let's check"
	Before they could move, Maria reached in her pocket, pulling out a set of keys with a shiny "I Heart NY" key tag. 
	"This is my car, need a lift?"
	Joe was giddy with excitement. His blood was up, his adrenaline coursing through his body. But a psychologist, what his dad would call a headshrinker, would have said that it was merely the body's natural reaction to stress, a sort of post tramatic release of neurochemicals. 
	"Shotgun!" he yelled and raced around to the passenger side of the old Chevy, as his father climbed in the back with Ben and Maria took her place at the wheel. 
	The old car smelled of old pine air fresheners, motor oil, and something else Joe couldn't place. He drummed his hands on the grey vinyl of the dashboard, looking at Maria expectantly, as if to say "Let's go!"
	He didn't know really know why he had so recklessly run headlong into the burning grocery store. For one thing, it wasn't like his brother was dying, they surely would have found medicine eventually, but something had compelled him, some intuition that this would be the only chance they would get what they would need. The fleeting thought crossed his mind that it was perhaps some divine will directing him in order to save the woman. He almost laughed at the thought. He didn't hold to notions such as those, that superstition that inevitably led it's believers to do such things as mutter gibberish when some other nutcase put their hands on their head, or even worse, fly planes into buildings in the name of their murderous deity. No, he ran in there precisely because it was such a stupid thing to do, foolhardy and dangerous, because that's who he was. And it really didn't look so bad from the outside. How was he to know a wall of fire had consumed half the store? From the outside it just looked a littly smoky. Or so he told himself. He was forever telling himself. As if his perpetual justifications actually changed the reality of the situation. He could see Eddie, hear him in his mind now. Eddie, his best friend and climbing partner, with that comical expression on his face. One of mock seriousness and mirth. He would take a long drag of a joint, lean back while holding the smoke and in a deep voice would say "Me and you Joe," smoke would waft from his mouth with every word, "me and you have the propensity to take risks in order to stimulate our dopamine reward systems." He would pause, "As determined by our genetic disposition." He would blow the rest of the smoke out, still looking very serious, and say "But to us normal cats, we like to say 'Let's get stupid'". He would draw out the "let's get stupid" as if he was a gameshow host saying "Let's Make a Deal" or even "The Price is Right". Joe thought of his friend and was fairly certain that Eddie's days of getting stupid were most likely over. 
	When Maria fired up the old Chevy, he car's radio came on loud and blaring, but of course it wasn't the radio, it was surely a CD. The radio had gone out with the TV yesterday, the last thing Joe and his brother had heard was the emergency broadcast. It had suddenly become real then, the pending apocalypse. When the words he had heard his whole life "this is only a test, this is only a test" became "This is NOT a test, this is NOT a test". The death of bilions of people, the end of an age contained in those three letters: NOT. It was NOT a test, it wasn't some post-modern War of the Worlds type hoax. No, it was real, all of it real. The missiles falling out of the sky, everything burning, the arm rolling down the windshield with it's surreal "thudump thudump". The dead everywhere. No, it was NOT a test. There was not even music on the radio. 
	The thought should hae sobered him, would have sobered others, "normal" people, but his dopamine receptors were currently eating up their reward like the winning little league team at the local ice cream shop. He belted out the song on the radio, loud and off key, "Ohh, yeahee yeah, it's where I found my love, ohewoh yeahee yeah", stumbling through the words he didn't know, not caring, adding his own where they fit. 
	They drove the short distance across two adjoining parking lots to the theatre, pulling right up to the front entrance, and parking the car. 
JB7
#
	Maria was in a near panic. Perhaps she should be grateful that she was alive. Perhaps she should thank God or maybe her lucky stars, or Joe. Especially Joe, but she wasn't feeling very thankful, not especially grateful. A part of her wished that they had never found her, that she was still ther on the floor of the grocery store, victim of the smoke or maybe the fire, or maybe even a great-big bomb that happened to land right smack on her head. That was the part of her that was tired. So tired. Wanting the end to just come already, to be done with it, with it all. She sometimes wished she was born a thousand years ago, miles and years away form the misery that chased her. That misery surely, surely would only end when she died. 
	It was the other part of her that was in a panic. The part of her that was a survivor, that would survive, and what's more, would get what it needed, no matter the price. It was this part of her mind that spoke now, it's dark seductive voice whispering it's way from the deepest recesses of the reptilian brain, that part of the brain that predated all of the higher fuctioning parts on the evolutionary timescale with their lofty and noble ideas such as love and loyalty and hope and charity. It was this twisted animal part of her that spoke, no, screamed now. It needed to be fed and soon. Her fix had rolled right out of her limp hand as it came to rest on the pharmacy floor. 
	Ben was laying on a  plush imitation velvet bench that sat below an oversized poster of a man in a leather cowboy hat who held a six-gun and wore a Mexican poncho. On any other day she would have found it funny, the irony that these beloved classics filmed halfway around the world, were supposed depictions of her fair motherland. But not today. She barely noticed the glossy movie poster, nor the plastic palm tree whose fake branches extended over Ben's reclined head. She barely noticed the men, Jack and Joe, tending to the younger Ben. What she did notice were the two bottles of pills below the branch. But the idea that crossed her mind was silly, more than silly. She couldn't just walk up to them and ask for a handful of Vicodin, and surely she needed a handful if she needed any. Hell, she thought, the acetaminophen in those little white tablets would probaby shut down her liver if she actually ate enough to catch a nod. But even that wasn't the silly part, not enough to stop her from doing just that. Because, if it came down to it, she would. She would eat the whole bottle, liver be damned. But she didn't think there were enough in the bottle, there were never enough in the bottle, in any bottle. She thought of something she had heard in rehab: "One's too many, a thousand's never enough". The real problem with her idea was much simpler, they would know her for what she was. And she could not have that. She could not be exposed. She had to protect it, her demon pet. Some flying monkey, from the Wizard of Oz, always needing to be fed, bearing her off to a field of poppies. No, they could not know. She unconsciously checked her sleeves, making sure they were not pushed  too far up her arm, revealing those tattle tale marks that would out her to these regular people. Another cliche, how she hated them, those silly one liners and acronyms, popped into her mind, ( as if their clever meaning could cut through the fog of her mind, her disorganized thinking, her warped priorities), "Da Nile is a river in Egypt". She turned without a further thought, went out into that dying world and got in her car. There were other pharmacies. Hell, right behind this plaza was another man made plateau, and on top of that was one of those super centers, where everything was sold. She wasn't sure which, she wasn't from around here, but it mattered not  a bit. What mattered were not the words on the sign outside, but the words on the bottles in the pharmacy. Oxycodone or Hydromorphone should do it, maybe even Dilaudid. Her pet monkey smiled. 
JB8	The shopping center in general was free of the traffic that filled the roads, so Maria easily wound behind the burned out plaza and up the carved out hillside to where the massive store was. Or had been, as she quickly discovered. There was a crater where the building had been and the few cars that had remained in the lot were either overturned or were pressed awkwardly against the concrete bases of light poles as they were pushed outward by some irristible force while the ground swallowed the brick and mortar that was the building. She got out of her car, the panic inside of her was growing. 
	She walked to the outer edge of the parking lot and, from her vantage point she could see for miles in all directions. It hit her instantly, there would be no longer be any driving. Every roadway that remained intact was crushed with the corpses of cars, miles of impassable traffic. Vehicles abandoned to their fate. And where there was no traffic, there was no road, rather rubble, splintered concrete and fused metal. No, there would be no more driving, but what was worse, there was no where to drive to. What stood, burned. She could see one or two isolated structures that had escaped this cruel armageddon, but they were few and far between, and not one of them was a pharmacy. The panic inside of her peaked in a crescendo of despair, and she sank to heer knees and cried. The better part of her, that part that wished she had breathed her last in a burning grocery store, that part of her told herself that she cried for the millions, perhaps billions of dead, for the passing of a world and it's ways. But the other part of her, that part running the show, the part that pushed the buttons and pulled the levers, that part of her cried too, it cried, for in this wasteland before her, this new world, it would not, could not be fed. And it would be sick. 
JB9	When Maria entered the movie theatre for the second time, she had resigned herself to her fate. She knew that she was going to be sick, that the poisons leeching out of her system would wrack her body and leave her at death's door, but that was not exactly right, for she was already at death's door. She had been at death's door and death had rejected her, leaving her in the world whose landscape now matched that dark part of her. She slso felt relief, that total complete relief that comes from having surrendered without condition. She had been at war with herself for far too long and now the fighting would cease. When she passed the ticket booths and approached the three men she had just left, the fight was gone from her. 
	"Hey!" she said in a  weak voice, unsure of how to continue, what to say, if she should say anything. 
	"Hey!", Ben was still laying on the bench, his face ashen. He gave her a smile. 
	"We thought you left us." Jack said. They could all see the streaks that began at the corners of her eyes and cut through the layers of soot on her face. 
	"You okay, Ma'am?"
	"Please call me Maria, I sure ain't no Ma'am, and yeah I'm okay. I'll be okay." She stressed the 'be' as if to correct herself. 
	"How about you?", she was looking at Ben. 
	"I'll be fine too", he smiled weakly again. "Want some popcorn?"
	She didn't want popcorn, not a bit, but she did have a craving for something sweet, and she knew that this was the beginning. It had been a little over twelve hours since her last fix and the sickness was coming on, slow at first, the craving for sugar accompanying what she intellectually knew to be a drop in blood sugar. She found the swinging half door that lead to the interior of the concession stand, and began rummaging through the boxes of candy until she found Mike and Ike's. She tore the super-sized box open and lifted the box to her mouth, filling it with the sweet, juicy candy. She stood there chewing a handful at a time, until the box was nearly empty. It would probably be the last time she would eat for a few days, the last time she could eat. She could already feel the sweat beading on her forehead and she shivered, the chills coming now. There was a stainless steel sink behind the counter. She tried the handles, but only a few drops came out, their plink-plink-plink hitting the metal sink and slowing to a stop. 
	"There's bottles of water under the counter," Joe called from where he sat on the bench beside his brother. She quickly located these and pulled one from the topmost case. She found a small hand towel, wet it and wiped the soot from her face, making her way to an empty bench, She sat and waited for the sickness to come. She didn't  have to wait long. 
She was beautiful Ben thought. Downright hot, really. But she didn't look all that well and she wasn't saying much either. Then again, she had just survived Armageddon so it wasn't unreasonable that not everything was perfect. Was 'peachy keen' as he would say. Not everything was peachy keen with his leg either, the glass that had cut him went deep, he had lost blood and he was sore. Every time he moved he was dizzy and if he tried to sit up too quickly he would see spots. It hurt, too. Not as bad as it had, the painkillers had seen to that, but it hurt something wicked. The woman though, she looked like she was about to throw up. 
	"Hey, Maria! You okay?"
JB10 JB11
	Her body was convulsing in short dry heaves and she was making  deep retching sounds as her body attempted to dump the contents of her stomach on the deep crimson carpet. 
	The woman didn't answer, she just leaned forward and spit a mouthful of bile on the floor. and then layed down sideways on the bench, hugging herself with both arms. 
	"Maria?..Maria? What's a matter?"
	Her eyes were glazed and watery, and she stared vacantly forward and moaned. 
Jack went over to her, and crouched down in front of her. 
	"What's a matter hun? Is it the smoke?" he asked, except he knew it wasn't the smoke, if it was the smoke that did this then the reaction would have been immediate.
	"I'm sick", she looked into his eyes, pleading, as if asking for mercy. Her pupils so wide. And then she told him, because ther was nothing left to do, there were no other options. And it no longer mattered, she was too sick to care. She would have time enough for shame and guilt when she felt better, but now all she could think of was how cold she was, how terribly cold. 
	They sat by her, Jack and Joe, taking turns, seeing to Ben, unable to help either except in the way of small comforts. The sweat ran out of her pores, soaking her clothes and the bench she lay upon, and she had an acrid smell about her. It was the same faint odor Joe had smelled in her car, the smell of the poison working it's way out of her system, coming through her pores. She cried too,a nd she mumbled in Spanish, asking for her mother in an incoherent daze. And she asked for the painkillers, she begged for the painkillers. She cried for them, for even just one of them, promising that she wouldn't ask again, begging for them through her tears. She threw up as well. Heaving and heaving until even the bile  and spit were gone from her stomach, then heaving some more, that dry retching sound so terrible and sickening coming from her lips. She didn't so much as sleep, rather she faded in and out of consciousness in a foggy haze, reality and her dreams merging in an indecipherable stream of consciousness. 
	On the third day, she was able to eat something. She sat up on the bench, slowly chewing a candy bar, taking small bites as if expecting it to come back up on her. She held it down. 
	"How you feeling?" It was Ben. He limped over from his bench and sat beside her. 
	"Okay, I guess" Her voice was weak, but she gave him a smile which he returned. 
	"I'm glad you're feeling better"
	"Thanks, you look a lot better too". 
	"Yeah, it wasn't nothin', just a little scratch".
	"Where's your brother and your Dad?"
	"Oh, they're looking around. I think they went to see if there is anything useful in any of those cars in the lot. I think Dad's really looking for a  pack of smokes"
	"Well, I hope he finds some because I could sure use one right about now" she laughed, and he laughed with her. 















NOW
15	The priest spent the rest of the day and all the the next in the town, bathing by the river and reading by the shore. He was in no hurry, his destination was inevitible. When he did finally decide to leave he took a few paperback novels with him, and as he rode away, he looked back with regret at the library.
	On the highway her rode east again, the hill country turning mountainous. He thought that by the end of the day he would be in the mountains proper and as he rose in elevation so did the temperature chill.
16	Towards the end of the day he reached the base of a  large mountain, the highway continued through the rock in two wide tunnels, one going in each direction. He stopped to camp there, building a fire inside the mouth of the tunnel and finding a car to sleep in. 	He awoke in the night with a start. He could see his breath turn to steam before him and he could hear the horse whinnying and stomping it's feet. There was a howling in the distance. Not one or two, but a legion of creatures howling at the moon, (four legged demons praying to their lunatic deity). He shivered. They were not close, he knew, but he built his fire up anyway. 
	In the morning, he made his way through the tunnel by candlelight. The going was painstakingly slow as he led the horse around and over the gridlocked wreckage of vehicles. Sometime after noon the vantage point of light that lay ahead  began to grow until he no longer required the candle to make his way. 
	The highway on the far side of the tunnel was in better condition. The rocky mountainside did not support the vegetation that grew  up over and through the road as elsewhere. There were few cars here and he went long stretches on empty roads. It was a desolate country, whose harshness infected his soul. Even the horse felt it as the oncoming dusk descended on them. That night he camped in the street. The glowing fire warding off the terrors of the night. The priest's sleep was restless, forgotten dreams waking  him to the braying of wolves. 
	They came the next night. 
	He had spent the day descending the far side of the range. He camped in the foothills at the base of mountains whose thick pines fell away on either side of the roadway. He dreamt he was on the beach. The beach where he had grown up. He was running along the shoreline where the water lapped up to quickly fill and wash away his footprints in the sand. There was something behind him. Something fast. Ahead of him the beach was vacant save for a lone figure in the distance. He sprinted towards it, staying just ahead of his unknown pursuers. Whatever it was, was gaining on him. The figure ahead grew until he recognized it. It was the little girl from so long ago, one of his survivors. She was beckoning to him, and he could hear her voice on the wind urging him to hurry. It was almost upon him. He turned to face those feral demons on his heels...
17	His eyes flashed open. There were a dozen or so wolves at the edge of his camp. Their eyes glowed with the  reflected firelight and their low growling sent shivers through his spine. The horse brayed, pulling on the tether that held hiim to rebar protruding from the median. 
	"Easy now boy," the priest whispered, as he slowly sat up moving to reach for the rifle beside him, never taking his eyes off of his foe. He edged his way to the concrete divider, leaning against it, putting it at his back. The wolves formed a half-circle around him, the largest stepping forward from the berm of the road, snarling and baring it's teeth. The wolves on his left were inching in on the horse, feasting on it's fear. The horse whinnied, rearing it's legs, it's great hoof catching an encroaching beast on the jaw, laying it flat with a whimper.
	The priest was steady, aiming the cold steel barrel with iciness and determination, waiting. The largest of the wolves leapt and the priest pulled the trigger. Hot steel exploded from the gun faster than the speed of sound, ripping the alpha dog's throat apart. The dog fell dead. 
	The priest fired again and again as the dogs advanced. Two attacked simultaneously. The first went down leaking blood on the asphalt. The other missed it's mark as the priest twisted away from the leaping animal. He brought the butt end of the rifle down hard upon the head of the sttacking wolf, shattering it's skull with a sickening crack. The remaining wolves retreated into the shadows, then advanced again, enraged by the scent of their own blood. The priest took aim at their new leader and felled it where it stood. The rest of the pack fell back again, sulking away into the darkness. 
18	Adrenaline coursed through his veins, his blood hot and on fire. He spoke softly to the horse, his tone soothing, calming the horse's terror. He added wood to the fire and resumed his position against the divider. He remained awake and alert, gun at the ready. And when first light broke, he pressed on. 




















AGO
ECG1	When finally the earth beneath them was still and the ground no longer shook from those making war upon it, the ragged band of survivors emerged from the great stone church to gaze upon their new world. The landscape before the was the charred hull of it's former self. Buildings, blocks, whole cities were all but gone. What wasn't ablaze was smouldering, the sky a dark haze of the smoke and dust of a world in the throes of death. There were nine of them including the priest and they stood scared but alive in stark relief to the world before them. 
	Naomi Middleton heard the piercing cry of the infant that was among them, the child's wails breaking her reverie. She had been staring in the direction where she lived, had lived rather, before the tidal wave of destruction washed away normalcy. And normalcy was what she had thrived on, what she had always known. Normalcy for her included a nice new car and a well groomed lawn in front of a pristine house. With an absurd thought she wondered who was going to cook their dinner. If the old handwoman who cooked and cleaned for them would find them here at the church. She sat her upper-middle class and upper-middle age body on a concrete knee wall by the church doors. She covered her face with her frail thin hands and began to cry. She didn't know why she was crying and that was exactly the reason she was, the tears running from the corners of her painted eyes, pulling the make-up down in long streaks making her look more like a depressive clown than the wife of a successful businessman. She didn't know what to do, the world suddenly an incomprehensible farce, something from a horror movie or the fantastic dream of a mad writer. Whatever it was, she now looked upon, it was nothing she was prepared for; a reality set in contrast to everything familiar to her, devoid of all the comforts, even the discomforts she understood. Her cat! She suddenly thought of her cat, and with another absurd thought, she hoped Mrs. Munoz would remember to feed it. 
	Aaron, her husband, sat beside her, putting his arm around her shoulders. Attempting to comfort his wife, not having the words to do so.  	"I want to go home", she said through her tears. The others just looked at her, no one speaking for a moment, the infant girl still crying, quieter now. There was a ruddy teenage boy on the cusp of manhood, he brought his cool blue eyes to bear on the woman. 
	"Lady, I don't think you have a home to go to." His facetiousness came out harsher than he had intended. His face softened and in a quiet, empathetic voice, "I don't think any of us do."
	The woman was struggling to grasp the reality of the situation and though it would necessarily take time, her tears dried up and she wiped her eyes with the palms of her hands, her costume jewelry clinking on her wrists as she did so. 
	"My wife needs to eat", the deep voice cut through the thick air. "She's nursing"
The priest turned to look at Bo, the man whose young wife cradled the infant. The man was scared, the priest could see, they were all scared, but Bo hid it well, burying the primal emotion beneath a mask of chivalrous selflessness. 
ECG2
	"Yes, she does, we all do." The priest answered, thinking. They were loooking at him, the others, as if he had some answers for them. Sarah, the older woman especially, her face passive, expressionless but expectant, waiting. When Sarah pointed her finger at you, you were it. She brought to the dynamics of every situation a type of cool control, deferring in every matter, knowing that when and if she spoke, she would be listened to, she would be heeded as final arbiter and judge. 
	"We can try the shopping plaza, see if there is anything left of it. "
	"My mother, my mother was at home", Aaron spoke, his voice weak and hoarse, almost a whisper. "I need to find her." He opened his mouth to say more, then shut it again. 	His mother was a parishoner of the church and lived only a mile south of where they stood. He had looked that way not more than a few times since emerging from the church. It was a swath of blackness in that direction, nothing stood higher than a street lamp. Aaron knew with certainty that she was gone, the only family he had besides his wife, gone. All of these families were gone. It was just them now. And as if to echo his thoughts, the older woman spoke up, a finalty in her voice that eliminated any indecision that may have remained,
	"It's just us now, we need to stick together
	The small group slowly made their way in the direction of the shopping plaza. They barely spoke, their expressions matching the grimness of the landscape around them. It took almost half the day to travel the few miles to the plaza. The ragged band slowly picking their way through the wreckage, the scene before them some grotesque incarnation of a fantasy realm. The corpses of cars and men were scattered about, the human bodies swelling in the heat, their thick stench mingling with the smoke and ash. The priest thought that he had always had an idea of what fire and brimstone amounted to, but now he was sure. As they passed the bodies, he tried to bless them, stopping at each and saying the words, making the cross in the air, but there were too many, and so he finally looked skyward and petitioned the Lord to aid the living and to take the dead unto him. 
	"Hey! Look! There's people!"
	They had reached the edge of the plaza parking lot and though the shopping center offered them no shelter they could see two men walking from a  car up ahead. 
	"Hey! Hey!" David yelled, runnning ahead, his teenage exuberance almost infectious as the others quickened their pace, hurrying toward the men they had seen. 
	"How yins doin'?", the man's valley accent was thick, his voice deep and pleasant. He was strong and lean, appearing younger than his sixty years. 
	"Well enough under the circumstances. How 'bout you folks?" It was Aaron who answered. 
	"We're managing. This is my boy Joseph. I have another one inside, another son that is. Ben caught a piece of glass in the calf, lost some blood, but he's recovering. We've got one more as well, a girl, woman, rather. She's a little under the weather. I'm Jack by the way. You folks hungry? Because we have plenty of popcorn and candy."
	"Sweet!" David replied, taking off in the direction of the theatre ahead of them.
	They made their introductions as Jack led the small band of survivors  through the glass doors of the theatre to the lobby, where Maria and Ben sat. 
ECG3  "I've brought some company." Jack said. 
	Maria gave a wave and a smile to the newcomers. David was already in the concession area, helping himself to stale popcorn and a chocolate bar. None of the survivors from  the  church had eaten in days, and they all reached hungrily for the theatre size boxes David began passing out. 
	The young girl, went and sat by Maria, offering her the box of Gummy Bears. She dumped a few in her hand and returned the box to the girl. 
	"Thanks, sugar. What's your name?"
	"I'm Dinah."
	"Dinah? LIke in the song?" Ben had leand forward. "You know, someone's in the kitchen with Dinah, someone's in the kitchen , I know owow. Someone's in the kitchen with Dinahhhhh"
	"Strummin' on the old banjo...." Jack finished the song with his son.
	"Their grand ma'm used to sing that when they were boys, hell even back when I was a boy." He laughed, remembering. 
	The girl was smiling too, enjoying the attention.
	"So, have you been here for a while?"
	"About three days, since right after it started," Joe was answering. "We were headed to the airport but my brother got hurt and then we met Maria, and she wasn't feeling so hot, probably all the smoke." He glanced at her ever so briefly. 
	"So we decided to stay here until , until we could move on. Not that we had a choice really. This was the only place standing."
	"Where were you going to go to? The airport?" Bo asked, his arm wrapped around his wife who cradled their infant. 
	"The airport, yeah. There was supposed to be a refugee center there. Food shelter, someone who knows what's going on." Joe emphasized this last part as if it were the true goal. Someone to make order out of the chaos, to right the overturned ship they found themselves in.
	"How about you guys? Where'd you come from?"
	The priest, who had remained silent until now answered, "I'm the pastor of the church down the road, was the pastor. We sat out the storm there, " he paused. "It looks like we were the lucky ones."
	"Are you sure about that?" said Ruth, Bo's wife. Her voice was cold and cynical and the others fell silent, looking at her. She said nothing else, returning her gaze to the baby in her arms. 
	They decided that night that they would all head off in the direction of the airport the next day, together. The two small groups merging seamlessly, all sharing that powerful bond unique to survivors of some cataclysm. Both walls of the lobby were lined with benches, and they slept easily that night, exhausted as they were, believing the worst was over. 
	The next morning they set out toward the airport. Jack and the priest out front. Joseph behind them walking beside his brother for support. Ben limped along unaided, the pain dull but there. Maria was doing better. She still had the chills but she thought she might have them for quite some time. She was anxious too, the the walking helped dispel some of her restlessness, and she fell into step talking with Dinah and her grandmother, Sarah. Aaron walked behind them, holding his wifes hands as she tentatively stepped over the piles of rubble and metal that seemed to have fallen from the sky. 
	Behind them were Bo and his wife, Ruth, clutching their daughter, Hope, making their way slowly across the menacing landscape. The air was still thick from smoke and ash and dust that polluted the air, so thick that it rose skyward and blocked out the sun with thick, dark clouds. About midday it began to rain, and it was not any rain, it was rain thick with acid and dirt and death. Rain that brought the filth of what had occurred back down to the earth rather than cleansing it. 
	"There's a school bus up ahead," Jack shouted back to the others ans he pointed forward. His words seemed to almost die as they attempted to cut through the maddenly thick atmosphere. Jack hurried forward around the side of the yellow school bus that was wedged bumper to bumper between a bright red convertible now filthy from the rain and dust, and a silver minivan. He forced the folding doors open and climbed up into the vehicle, the others following close behind him. They sat on the bus in silence, the rain  bearing down on them, it's weight enough to crush what life remained out of the living. 
	Pools of murky liquid formed in the numerous craters and holes that spotted the land, the rain carrying off the coating of ash and dust that coated everything, leaving behind a worse, thicker grime that gave off a fetid odor as if the world beneath them was rotten and decaying. And perhaps it was. 
ECG4	The day gave way to night and the light went from dim to none, the luminosity of the heavens not nearly strong enough to pierce through the black clouds above them. A Stygian darkness descended on all the land and still, it rained. The only sounds, the rapid drops of the poison rain and the wind howling across the ravaged landscape. When finally the morning came, they could see again. The rain slowed to a drizzle and finally stopped, but there was no rainbow. There was no miracle of light in the sky, no signal from the lord on high that all would be well, no promise. They set off again with heavy hearts, hoping beyond hope that they would find respite at their destination. 
	They sighted the airport after a few hours, their steps slow and dragging, and when they finally cut off of the road onto the airport's drive, their spirits lifted. They thought that they might hear some sign of life coming from the small county airport, but there was nothing yet. Surely the thick air dampened the sound as well as their souls. They moved forward, determined. 
20	The airport was a few acres of grass and asphalt atop a plateau, overlooking the river valley. The bright blue hangars reflected the bright midday light, casting a glare in their eyes. They approached through the main entrance, a low squat building with a square tower protruding from the top. From the tower hung a long white banner with large red letters, RED CROSS. The doors of the building were open and they entered through the portico. David ran ahead through the rear doors onto the airfield beyond. Through the doors they could see the open bay doors of the hangars. They followed David onto the tarmac. There were crates laying about the runway with symbols painted on. They contained dehydrated food and bottled water. 
	Ahead in the entrance of the hangars were a few folding tables, beyond appeared to be hundreds of sleeping bags arranged in grids on the concrete floor. 
	A stillness lay over the makeshift camp, and as they approached they could smell the sickly sweet odor of death. The seeping bags were filled, the decaying corpses of men and women and children littered the floor. Bodies sat frozen against the walls and lay across makeshift benches. Mothers cradles infants, whole families were huddled together in a ghastly repose. 
	Dinah shivered at the sight, Sarah pulling her in close to comfort. They stared.
"Madre de Dios", the Spanish woman spoke sotto voce, making the sign of the cross. 
	"We should do something", the woman with the infant spoke softly, perhaps to herself. 
	No one spoke for a few long moments, the only sound the low buzzing of flies  in the hangar. A deep despair settled on their souls. 
	The priest finally broke the silence, "It is in God's hands now." They turned away, one by one toward the building they came through. 
21	The young man and the accountant began freeing boxes from the crates of supplies. Aaron pulled a bottle of water from an open crate and began uncapping it. 
	"Don't!" Dinah cried, fear piercing her voice. She pointed back towards the death behind them. Some of the bodies clutched bottles of water. Empty bottles were scattered on the floor. Aaron dropped the bottle, the realization of what had happened dawning on them all.
	"We need to leave this place." Sarah spoke with finality. 
	They camped under an overpass that night, well away from the smell of death that still lingered in their noses. They huddled together in the dark, eating the last of the theatre candy and drinking toilet water.












NOW
21             On the third day from the night of the wolves, the forest broke, opening into a broad expanse of flatlands once formed by it's inhabitants. Corn and grasses grew wildly in the fields he passed, untended for years by human hands. An occasional farmhouse spotted the countryside, most had burned but a few remained intact. The highway straightened before him, running far into the horizon. The priest halted the horse, peering into the distance. There was a small four-legged figure up ahead on the highway. He pulled the rifle from the holster that hung across his back. As he rode forward, the figure grew until he could make out the creature. It was a common dog, probably the spawn of a family pet. He holstered the rifle and rode toward it, but it merely barked as it ran away from him. 
	He rode on. Shortly thereafter, he thought that something in the countryside was different. There was in orderliness present in the fields, neater rows of crops as if they had been planted. Not quite straight lines of corn lay off to the side of the highway. He heard a rustle in the corn to his left and freed the rifle, aiming in that direction. 
22	"That's far enough, buddy." A man stepped out of the corn holding a shotgun leveled at the horse and rider. "Off the horse."
	"I don't think so." He held the man in the rifle sights, unblinking. 
	The man stepped sideways in to the center of the road, squaring off with the priest.
"Why do you have a priest's collar on?"
	"Because I'm a priest."
	The man squinted. "You don't look like no priest."
	"What does a priest look like?" the priest asked casually, never moving the gun. 
	"If you're a priest, why are you aiming a gun at me?"
	"Because you aimed yours at me."
	The farmer considered this for a moment with a look of consternation upon his face. He decided to test the priest. 
"Aw, hell! My gun's got no ammo anyways." He lowered the shotgun and spun around walking away from the  priest and his horse. 
	"Name's Joe Jackson...you coming?"
	The priest lowered his weapon slowly and followed the farmer. He left the gun unholstered though he had decided already that the man was no threat. Perhaps a stranger to sanity, but harmless. A few paces down the road the dog bolted from the corn to it's master's side, turning it's mangy head to give the horse and rider a cursory bark.













AGO
23	"What should we do now?" The little group sat on the hoods of automobiles that had come to their end in traffic that extended for miles, their previous owners abandoning them to their fate as they flew from some unknown menace. 
	They all looked toward the priest, his face was passive and still showed his youthfulness. They expected leadership from him, of course. Decisiveness, not the uncertainty he now felt. He thought that perhaps Sarah should assume leadership, her stern stoicism so commanding. Or maybe Bo, or even the accountant. Aaron certainly had gumption, though it had maybe lain dormant for years beneath the guise of a sedentary office worker. Anyone but himself. In spite of his misgivings he spoke with assurance. 
	"We go to the river. There is freshwater for sure, and if we follow it away from the city, perhaps we can find refuge." He looked around for confirmation. There were a few nods.
	"Maybe we can find a boat, since the roads...you know." Ben added, motioning toward the traffic. 
	"If we go through the hollow there," Ruth, the woman with the infant stammered, "there might be something." She was thinking of her child and restless with urgent mother's instinct. This child's needs nagged at her with urgency and persistance. 
	"There's a gas station down at the bottom." He hadn't needed to easign his wife's argument, the group were all nodding in assent. There was no other way without travelling well out of their way. 
	"Well, let's get on with it," Sarah stood and headed off to the side of the road, following the line of traffic down a long winding hill. They passed a large, flat, low building on their right that seemed to have escaped destruction. Maria pointed towards it, inquiringly. Ben shook his head "It's been abandoned for years."
24	Further on they passed a construction yard. Large earth-moving machines trapped behind tall chain-link fencing, never to move again. Past which stood an elementary school. The track, and below a football field were remnants of a time when the school catered to the neighborhood's older kids. A circular drive wound around off the street and to the front entrance of the long brick building. Fire had ravaged the building but it's structure was still intact. 
	David, a former student, raced off from the rest of the group towards the school. 
	"Hey! Wait! Where are you going?" Naomi yelled after him. She had begun taking  a liking to the boy, dropping her pretense and aloofness. 
	The teenage boy wheeled about yelling "The cafeteria's in the basement, there are vending machines!"
	"We'll come with you!', Ben yelled back and he and his brother sprinting after him followed by Bo. The rest crossing the road in that direction, in pursuit of the running scouts.
	David reached the entrance and yanked on the doors. They were locked. 
	"I'll find something to break the glass." Bo said, turning back towards the drive. 
	David didn't wait, to the left rows of windows lined the building all swinging upward. 
25	"I'll come around and open it." He disappeared through the open window. They could see through the glass doors into a dark hallway beyond. The brick walls were scorched from fire and black with soot. The rest of the group had caught up to them and gathered at the doorway, waiting for the boy. 
	"Where is he?"
	"Something's wrong!" Dinah said suddenly, eyes wide, fear ripping through her gut. 
	David appeared in the hallway, walking slowly, absently, his gaze was fixed somewhere in the distance. When he opened the door he remained silent, his faraway expression bore witness to some unspeakable horror. He stood half in half out the door, his body propping it open. 
	"What is it?" Naomi was suddenly very afraid, her voice betraying that fear. 
	"It..it.." His voice trailed off, a single tear ran from the corner of his eye, his jaunty demeanor all but a memory. Naomi embraced him, taking  him in her arms, pulling his head in close.
	"Wait here." the priest opened the door the rest of the way and entered the school. Jack, the father of Joe and Ben, followed behind him, ignoring the command. 
	"I've got your six, son." The man was perhaps sixty, still stout and vigorous. He and the priest walked the ghostly hall until they reached the door through which David had come. 
	They stood in the doorway, peering into the bleak darkness inside. The windows casting just enough light to make out the rows of blackened little bodies, fixed in a  seated position, held there by the metal frames that once were their chairs. 
	At the head of the classroom was a larger figure, charred and unrecognizable, seated behind a grey metal desk. The unearthy scene was grotesque, a sight from a macabre alternate reality. The priest retched, his stomach emptying itself of bile, the acid taste filling his mouth. He spit. Jack put a hand on his shoulder, the priest turned to look at him.
26	"He knew these kids, David knew them." He said empathetically. 
	"What now?"
	"You tell me, son."
	"We should check the cafeteria." It came out more of a question than a statement. 
	"Sounds good." Jack reassured him. "He said the basement, right?"
	The priest nodded, turning towards whence they came. 
	At the beginning of the hall they found  a stairwell that took them down to the basement. To the right a set of double doors opened up into a dark, vacant cafeteria, it's hundreds of chairs thankfully empty. They crossed the room toward the serving area, entering the kitchen through another door. 
27	The entire area was untouched by fire. A few rays of light came from a row of high windows just below the ceiling. Stainless steel cookware hung from racks above the shiny metal countertops. It was a  cold, sterile room with hard tile floors and a thick morgue-like atmosphere. Towards the back of the kitchen, Jack found a supply room, he pulled a lighter from his pocket and flicked it in the dark. Rows of plainly marked, industrial sized foodstuff lined the shelves. Canned fruits and vegetables, boxes of pasta and bags of rice, enough to feed a small army of school children. He looked back at the priest. "We're going to need some help, I'll get my boys."
	They would need a way to carry everything, the priest turned to look for something suitable while Jack headed back up the steps to fetch his boys. Across from the cafeteria at the base of the stairwell was a hallway that ran in the other direction. He followed it until he found what he was looking for. Grey metal lockers lined the hallway, each containing a former student's bookbags. When he found them, emptying their contents on the floor until he had fifteen or so bags. 
	Jack, his boys and Bo were waiting for him in the kitchen. They began to fill the bags. Not everything would fit, so they prioritized, the priest weighing the necessity and value of each item. Joe and Ben each took an empty bag and went off in search of utensils and anything else useful. 
	"Stay down here, boys." Their father warned, catching a glance form the priest. 
28	"Yessir" The two boys rummaged through the stainless steel cabinets finding plastic cups and bowls, and in a  drawer they found a good kitchen knife and a small handheld can opener. Ben grabbed a large cooking pot hanging from a rack above the counter. Joe ventured out of the kitchen area. At the beginning of the line there was a rack for silverware. He grabbed a handful each of forks, spoons and a few knives and tossed them in the bag. As he turned to go back in the kitchen he spied a row of vending machines lining the far wall. He smiled, excited by the thought of what lay inside. He walked over to a glass faced machine grabbing a chair along the way. He swung the chair forcefully through the machine's front, breaking the glass face.
	"I'm good!" He shouted in the direction of the kitchen, knowing the others had probably been startled by the crash. He returned to the others eating a candy bar, grinning ear to ear. 
	Sarah insisted on carrying a pack on her back despite Bo's gallant attempt to relieve  her of her burden. They all carried what they were able, the boys managing two each, wearing one in the front as Ben had shown them. 
	They wanted to make the river well before nighfall, so they set out on  a brisk pace energized by Joe's candy bars. 
	Naomi stayed close to David, helf man half boy, whose eyes had looked upon horrors no youth should see. Surely, in this  dark world, there would be more, perhaps worse horrors, but he would no longer be a boy. 




















NOW
29	The priest gently nudged the horse's side with his bootheel, and trotted after the farmer and his dog. He pulled alongside of them and dismounted, but kept their pace walking, leading the horse by it's reins. He waited for the farmer to speak. 
	"So, where you from Buddy, I mean Father?" He glanced sidelong at him. "Say, you really a priest?"
	"Truly, I am."
	"So, where you headed?"
	"To the coast"
	"What for?"
	"I grew up there."
	"And...?"
	"And I would like to see it while I'm still able."
	"You really are a strange fella."
	The priest furrowed his eyebrows, looking at the farmer inquisitively, wondering if the farmer really believed that he was the strange one. 
	" I mean, a Godly fella like yourself, travelling halfway across the country just to see it."
	The priest remained silent, his expression passive.
	"Say, you don't say much do ya?"
	"When I have something to say."
	The farmer grunted, "I have a farmhouse up yonder, about a mile from here. I plant the corn this far away because I keep the cattles' grazin' close in case there's trouble, you know."
	The priest hadn't asked but apparently the farmer felt compelled to tell him. 
	"I'll fix us some lunch."
30	They strode on, passing abandoned cars to their right, staying abreast of the corn on their left. The pleasant earthy smell of the crops blending with the sharp acrid smell of asphalt under the blazing summer sun. Their pace had slowed now that the farmer had begun to talk. 
	"My old man was a Protestant, but my Mama was Catholic," he looked at the priest. "And my wife is Catholic, I reckon that makes me at least half Catholic."
	The priest chuckled. 'That makes you more Catholic than me' he thought to himself. He earnestly hoped that the man would not go on about religion, a common occurence among those who saw his collar. Why he still wore it, he couldn't say, yet he couldn't bring himself to be rid of it. It was his ball and chain, a lodestone about his neck, tethering him to the anathama he called faith. 
	"My wife always says that it's what you do that counts. Do you think that's so?"
	"I think it might be."
	"What about the people who pushed the buttons, you know, before? What if they believed they were doing the right thing?"
	"If there is a God, I don't think he cares what we believe one way or another."
	The farmer stopped and stared at him in disbelief. 
	"What I mean to say," he corrected himself, "is that God does not require our faith, nor our prayer. We require them for our own spiritual well-being." Why disturb this pool soul so, why tell him what he really believed: that we as humans had been masturbating ourselves with our lofty ideas of spirituality for millenia. It was so much easier to embrace the emptiness that is.
31	"What about the suicides?"
	"Hmmm?"
	"The suicides? The people who can't take it anymore. The people who off themselves? My wife says they go to hell."
	'We're in hell' the priest thought. "They are cut off from the light of the Lord.", He reached for the party line, regurgitating dogma for the man. 
	"So is that a 'yes'?"
	"Yes, that is hell."
	The man was obviously referring to the mass suicides that had occured when the world went to shit so long ago. Countless people poisoning themselves, whole families, and those who didn't have access to the poison, ended themselves in any way they could. People who looked upon the world that was left and couldn't bear the sight of it. He remembered the young woman, she had survived so much, too much, to end the way she had. The farmer was speaking, his words distant, the private memories so vivid, consuming his mind. 
	"Huh?"
	"I said, what if they were sorry?" he asked. "You know, before they died, at the last minute."
	"I suppose they might be okay." Where was he going with this?
	"So someone could jump in the river, say a Hail Mary as they were drowning, and go to heaven?"
	"I don't think it works like that. You can't truly be sorry for something you planned to repent." He saw that the farmer was confused. 
	"Nevermind" He decided to change the subject. "Your wife, will I meet her?"
32	"Sure will."
	"Do you have any kids?"
	"Nope. It's just us, been that way for as long as I can remember. In fact, you're the first passerby in damn near half a year." He was quiet for a minute, growing somber. 
	"My wife's a good woman. A God-fearing woman. She doesn't get around no more on account of her being sick. She's been in bed for a good while now. It's been hard."
	The priest nodded, he knew all about the sickness. His own canceer growing, spreading inside of him, blackening his insides. 
	They walked on in silence. 












AGO
33	The priest remembered the day he had met Sarah, the wizened Matriarch. It was a bright summer day a few years back. He had been appointed to the church just a few weeks and it was the day of the church's annual picnic. He was overwhelmed with new faces as he took the opportunity to get to know the parishoners whose souls were entrusted to his care. 
	Sarah's husband had been a founding member of the church, people joking that he was old when Jesus walked the Earth. The elderly rector of the church, whom he replaced had told him of Sarah and her husband. How the husband had passed on and how, shortly after her husband's death, she had lost not one but both of her two sons as well as her daughter-in-law. She had taken this reversal of the natural order with an uncommon calm, as she took everything, with a regalness befitting a queen. Her strength and fortitude drew those around her to her and she remained a fixture of the small community. 
	That summer day, she had held her only surviving family, the infant Dinah, when she first greeted the young priest. They were under a large tent in the field beside the church. A serving line was set atop a few of the many folding tables, and the priest had just filled his paper plate with fried chicken and potato salad. He turned to return to his seat at one of the tables when he nearly ran into her, drawing himself up short and almost dropping his plate. 
	"Good afternoon, Father, are you enjoying our picnic?"
	"Yes, of course." He was intimidated by her. Her serene expression gave no hint of emotion. Forbidding, yet so very attractive. He wondered how old she might be and realized he could not even fathom a guess. She had a quality of agelessness about her. 
	"It's wonderful Mrs...."
	"Sarah's fine" she interrupted him. "You'll make me feel old." She laughed suddenly, "Do I frighten you, Father? You look as if you've seen a ghost."
	He almost stammered in reply.
	"Come sit with me, " she beckoned, putting him back at ease. She had a magnificant amount of sway over the emotions of others, he realized. He followed her over to a table and sat across from her in a folding chair, setting his plate down in from of him. She sat across from him, holding the infant, periodically looking down at the child then back towards him. He seemed to as if her gaze pierced right through him, as if she could see right through him into his soul, every one of his thoughts open to her inspection.
34	"What did you want to be before you decided to become a priest?"
	The question was blunt and unexpected. He thought she would ask him where he was from or about the church or his family or anything but that. Even the "why do you want to be a priest?" was a less disconcerting question. 
	Her question implied the obvious truth that becoming a priest was not his first choice, that is was but the runner up on his list of things to do. He suddenly felt fake before her eyes. A nakedness of the soul that could not escape her notice.
	"My, child, I DO firghten you." She cradled the babe with one arm and reached across to reassuringly grasp his forearm. He thought that perhaps she liked making him uncomfortable. 
	"You probably think it was an unfair question, but I assure you, God has a way of pulling the rug out from underneath of us all. They say the way to make God laugh is to make plans." Sarah laughed. 
	He remembered being told about the death of her sons, about her stoicism in the face of tragedy, but he didn't think she was referring to her own tragedy.
	"I think you're right about God and our plans."
	"Child, I know I'm right." She had not asked him what he thought of her own personal statement of belief, and she was not the sort that needed reassurance. His usual self-confidence was all but gone now, the older woman having thoroughly disconcerted him. The intelligence and wit he had relied on his whole life was left wanting in the face of her keen perception.
35	"Relax, I like you," her voice soothing. "If I was twenty years younger I would ask you out." She winked at him and laughed again. "I'm just joking."
	"You mean you don't like me then?" It was his turn to laugh. 
	"Good, you do have a sense of humor." She laughed with him, "I think you'll make a fine priest"
#
	Sarah was walking beside him now, the two of them in the lead, followed closely by the others. Bo and Ruth, the infant clutched to her breast walking silently with Jack and the accountant behind them speaking in low tones. Maria, Joe, and Ben walked abreast partaking in their own conversation. David, somewhere along the line had decided to undertake the protection of Dinah and so, held the girls' hand as they followed the others. She intuitively felt his need to protect and so allowed him this comfort, while Naomi brought up the rear .
	The road  to the river wound down through a hollow, a deep ravine cut out of the hilly country by mother nature. As they left the high ground, cars became scarce and trees became plentiful on the unbuildable valley walls. 
	"Do we have a plan?", Sarah asked him, matter of factly, deferring to his leadership, or perhaps trying to foster it. 
36	"Why, are we trying to make God laugh?" He turned to her, humor in his eyes and smiled for the first time in days. His smile was a sort of half grin, an Irish mischieviousness where only half the mouth did the smiling and his eyes did the rest. 
"Well, we had better come up with something, because if this is God's plan, then we would do well to have our own." She laughed this time, her sarcasm masquerading as blasphemy. The irony was not lost on him, how so much of what this woman said was so antithetical to all he was taught, yet her faith was unshakable precisely because she attacked all of the givens with the most penetrating skepticisim. It took all of his intelligence to appreciate how intelligent she was and how her faith grew from that intelligence. She had once told him that she believed that God only acted in the space that was uncertainty on the sub-atomic level, "After all, God has to follow his own rules." He thought of all that he had witnessed these last few days and wondered whether God was still acting subatomically, whether there may be truth in her sarcasm. He pushed the thought out of his mind. 
	"Fresh water, a hot meal and a warm bed, oh and a shower." That was a far as his mind had gotten. "Any ideas?"
	" I think we'd all agree that would be a fine start." 
	A short time later they passed the shell of a burned out gas station. There was a a car parked at one of the gas pumps, it too was just a charred shell and through it's windshield they could see the blackened body of the vehicle's former driver. They walked on in silence until they finally reached the river, the road they were on turning into a long steel bridge sitting atop great supports. The bridge began it's ascent from the ground well before the river's edge leaving a sheltered area under the bridge, beside the water. They relieved themselves of their packs, and set them by the stone wall. 
	The priest knealt by the water's edge drinking with cupped hands. The accountant, Jack, Sarah, all were following suit when Joe and Ben cast off their shoes and ran into the water, splashing a few feet before diving under the water. They emerged smiling , gulping water as they floated in the cool water. 
37	The rest of the group began taking their shoes off, even Sarah who waded in with Dinah. Ruth sat at the waters' edge with her feet submerged while holding her baby as her husband and David dove in. Jack sat beside Ruth and the baby and watched as Naomi and Aaron held hands and jumped in, Naomi holding her nose as she went under. 
	Ruth sat, watching the others, looking out at the lazy river, ?????? anxious for her child. Wondering what kind of world her baby was to grow up in. She thought of her parents who lived in the city by the ocean; a city she had watched disappear in the live broadcast in the first wave of destruction. It had been there one minute and then it was gone, the ground itself had seemed to burn with a preternatural heat, as if Satan himself had opened the bowels of earth and swallowed the city whole; the fires of the underworld blackening everything good. Her mother and father, her younger sister, her uncle and her grandmother in her nursing home, all swept away. 
	Bo was from that faraway city as well, and although his family was there as well, he had remained silent as they had watched. Their past and their future consumed in flames. They had watched too, as other cities were engulfed and finally the broadcast itself went dark as if the events unfolding were black holes, nothing, not even light escaping them.
38	She had been filled with horror at the broadcast and had begun screaming. She had been holding her child nursing it, and it began to cry as her tears infected the baby, Mother and child wailing in fright. Bo had taken the child from her, her hands gripping the babe, refusing to let go. Bo had said they would go to the church, it was safe there, and they could pray with the others. His answer to everything, pray. Pray and it will be alright. Pray and your family won't all die in a maddening holocaust, pray and your newborn won't grow up in a  world too grotesque to look upon. Pray and your sanity won't be driven from  you. 
	They had gone to the church. Bo had prayed , and their families were still dead, the world was still some mad carnival of horrors, and reason had departed with the last wisps of hope. 
	She saw the body before the others, it was floating face down in the water. The naked flesh bloated with a pale cyan tint. It followed the current and entangled itself  on a tree branch caught by the closest of the bridge's stone supports. There it lingered, a testament to the new order of things. Bo noticed her staring and turned to look, the others turning also. More corpses pockmarked the river, escaping their notice until now, and they watched as they slowly wound their way down the river, the body stuck in the tree branch finally freeing itself and floating past. 
39	The boys went off in search of firewood. Joe, Ben and David scouring the strip of woods along the river bank, periodically bringing back armloads of kindling, dragging back downed branches and dried brush, dumping it on a loose pile on the bank. Jack took to arranging the wood and using his lighter to spark the fire, babying it until he had a steady blaze. 
	Sarah began rummaging through the packs of food, inspecting each item. She looked over at Naomi, who was standing motionless, unsure of what  to do. 
	"Help me girl. We're going to make some supper." She inevitably called everyone boy, girl or child, no matter how old, one's age never approaching her own ancient timelessness.
	"I..I can't cook." Naomi said sheepishly.
	"Nonsense. Can you boil water?"
	"Of course." Naomi began to move recovering from Sarah's pointed words. She had always known priveledge, and that was of little use here, where money was useless. She desired the old woman's approval and, attempting to gain her respect, was consciously adapting herself to her environs.
	She picked up the large stainless steel cooking pot and carried it to the water's edge, bending to fill it. When she carried it back to the fire she stopped. She didn't know what to do.
	"Ever been camping?" Maria came to her side seeing her trepidation.
	"No."
	"No? Never?" She had asked the question, almost rhetorically. Everybody went camping. "Come on, I'll show you."
	She led Naomi off to find something to suspend the pot over the open fire. They came back a few minutes later with a gray steel post that had once belonged to a fence that no longer stood. They then enlisted Aaron and the priest to help them carry a number of cinderblocks back to their camp. They stacked two piles of block, three high, one pile on either side of the fire and then stretched the fencepost between them suspending the pot of water over the fire. 
40	"Que Buena, hermanos." Maria turned to Naomi, raising her hand to high-five the middle aged woman smiling as the slapped the youngers' hand. 
	That night they ate and warmed themselves by the fire and slept by the bank of the river, each lost in their own thoughts. 
	The priest awoke in the night. The heat of the day had evaporated from the earth and the evening's air held a chill. He arose and rebuilt the fire from it's embers. He pulled one of the cinderblocks from where they were stacked  and rested himself by the flames, staring into them. Their powers of destruction so great yet so necessary to life. 
	"Whatchya thinking about?"
	He looked up from his thoughts. It was Maria. She pulled a second block from it's place and set it down next to his, seating herself on it. He could feel the heat radiating form her body so close to his. Her proximity to him sending a prickly sensation coursing along his skin. She was beautiful. Her dark skin reflected in the fire light, highlighting her sharp, high cheekbones and deep rich eyes, When he looked at her a nervous chill passed through him, the firelight dancing in her eyes a warning. A warning not of any threat that she innately bore but of the thirst of his own desire, of his base nature. And in that moment, her wanted to taste the forbidden fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. The fruit of his very own Eve. He pushed back the thought.
	"Couldn't sleep. You?"
	"No. I haven't slept much since everything." She looked at him intently, her pupils wide and dark. 
	"How did you end up meeting up with Jack and his boys?" He had seen Joe and Ben and to a lesser extent Jack around the neighborhood, but he had never seen Maria before, he was sure he would have remembered.
	"I don't know really, they just found me. I was wandering around. I don't really know this area. I'm not from around here."
	"Where are you from?"
	"The city."
41	He waited for her to elaborate, but she didn't. "Do you have people, family there, in the city?"
	"No." She didn't offer more. She looked away from him into the fire, he could see a dampness glistening in the corner of her eyes.
	"I'm tired, I think I'm going to lay back down." She said abruptly, and went back to the spot she had chosen to sleep.
	It was awhile before he, too, went off to sleep.
	In the morning,the days' new sunlight woke them from their slumber, it's bright rays glistening off of the flowing water. 
	"Ruth...Ruth?" The edge in Bo's voice causing those still stirring to wakefulness to sit up alast. 
	"Where is Ruth?" The woman and her baby were missing from the group. 
	"Maybe she went to the bathroom?" Dinah asked, fear creeping into her voice. 
The priest stood, shaking the dirt from his pants, he had been worried about the woman, his worry now outright fear. 
	"We need to find my wife." He spoke calmly but his face was a mask of anxiety and fear. He went off into the thicket of woods along the riverbank. Aaron following after him. The small band began to yell the woman's name as they ventured off in different directions in search of the woman and child, a panic now infecting the group. 
42	The priest found her a few minutes later. He called to the others. She was sitting, back facing him, in a bus shelter up along the road. As he climbed the short hillside to the road the sickening realization dawned on him that she was not moving. He hurried the rest of the way up the hill and rounded the corner of the bus shelter. The others were just starting to come up the hill behind him. They fell in around the priest, Bo raced past the others, stopped and fell to his knees. 
	The woman was frozen in repose the dead infant clutched to her breast, the lips of both mother and child were blackish blue, the skin a light blue pallor. The bitter smell of almonds permeated the air, not quite masking the sickly sweet scent of decay that was just now blossoming in their noses. Her expression was almost peaceful, as if both were merely napping and would awaken at any moment. The young woman's grace in death gave her the air of some morbid Madonna and child, a cold marble sculpture fashioned by the reaper himself. 
	At the woman's feet was an empty water bottle, with a bright red label, the same as those at the airport. The priest bent to pick it up. It was from the airport, there was no doubt. Ruth had taken it with them when they had left that god-forsaken place, and now shared the same fate of those poor souls. 
	Bo was kneeling, resting on his knees, softly sobbing. He stood suddenly, his face darkening to a mask of pain and anger. 
43	"We will need to bury them." It was Sarah that had broken the silence. 
	"No." His voice was trembling, hot with fury. He looked at the others, his face contorted with rage. "She killed my baby girl!"
	He didn't wait for a reply, he strode away, down the street, not looking back. 
	"We'll bury them down along the river." The priest echoed Sarah. 
	" I didn't even know the baby's name."
	Maria spoke softly to them, to herself, "Hope...her name was Hope."




















NOW
43	The farmhouse was set back aways from the edge of the highway on the crest of a gently sloping hill. There was a faded red barn to the left and behind with large open doors that led to a vast fenced in area. A few cows dotted the hillside and field, the heifers grazing on the wild grasses. The house itself was two-story traditional farmhouse with protruding dormers and long porch that wrapped around the entire length of the structure. The porch's bright white trim accenting the light blue building, the paint appearing as if it was freshly put on, and anomaly in this day and age. 
	"Well, here we are." The farmer mounted the broad wooden steps leading up to the porch. The mangy dog bounded up the steps after him, panting in the afternoon sun. 
	"There's a hitching post there."
	The priest had already noted the rough hewn post and made his way towards it, He secured the horse and climbed the steps to the porch. It was an effort, the few steps. The humid air had begun to weigh heavy on his lungs, the mugginess making his breathing difficult. A wheeze turned into a fit of coughing and he stopped to rest leaning on the white wooden bannister. The farmer looked down on him inquisitively but kept his peace. After a few moments it passed. He took a few deep breaths and climbed the remaining few steps.
44	"Take a load off." The farmer pointed to a white wicker couch and seated himself opposite it in a matching chair. A small wooden coffee table lay between them. 
	"Thirsty? I'll fetch us something to drink." The farmer rose as quickly as he had sat down and went in the house, the wood framed screen door banging behind him. 
	The priest looked out at the farm, the highway fading away in the distance. He had come aways so far but had much further to go. He wondered what strange fellows he would meet on his journey, people like this man, deprived of all human contact, save for his wife for so long. 
	He noticed the faint odor of cow manure mingling with something else...some other unpleasant odor. Overpowering that was the sweet fresh smell of cut grass, a smell he had missed for years; it came from the manicured lawn in front of the farmhouse, he sat in wonder at the sight. He had not seen a freshly cut lawn in years; he wondered how it was even possible. He had heard rumors of people using gasoline engines; those people making their own deisel from old motor oil. He had even heard of a man with solar cells, but he had not seen any of these things himself and he doubted if there were truth to the rumors.
	The farmer came back outside carrying a pitcher of lemonade and two cups, he set it down on the table and motioned towards the pitcher. "Help yourself."
	The priest stared at the pitcher, he half expected to see ice in it, the drink being so rare and exotic. 
45	He looked at the farmer skeptically, "Do you have a lemon tree somewhere? Maybe out back, where you keep the lawnmower?"
	The farmer chuckled, "My lawnmower's not very special really. It's the old mechanical push kind, where the wheels spin the blades. Hell it was old when I wasn't." He laughed out loud at his own joke.
	"As for the lemonade, thats old too I presume. It's the powdered kind, I traded a fella some time ago who wanted fresh milk for his newborn. He said he had travelled for two days to find him some milk. I've been saving the lemonade for some such occasion as this. I don't get too many passersby, I might have mentioned."
	The priest stood and strode down the steps towards his horse. He reached in his saddlebag and removed a full quart of whiskey and brought it back up to the porch. He uncapped the bottle and filled each glass halfway. He set the bottle on the table and picked up the pitcher, filling his own glass the rest of the way. 
	"For the occasion." He told the farmer, nodding at the whiskey. 
	A slow wide smile spread across the farmers face, he lifted his glass, held it up towards the priest and with a nod, a sort of non-verbal salud, and drank. 
	The two men sat for some time, drinking, enjoying the days' warmth. After a while the farmer spoke. "Do you think when you die you get to see the people knew, your loved ones?"
	"In a manner of speaking," the priest lied. Or at least he thought he was lying. He believed he was lying. And if he was was wrong, and that 'was' the truth, well then, his own death would still be final. He would lose Pascal's Wager, knowing that to disbelieve would have the same end as there being only nothingness. 
46	"You know my wife is sick." The farmer looked in the priest's eyes. The priest could see the pain in his eyes. A hollowness and...something else, a flicker of insanity. 
	"When you do last rites, that means the person is guaranteed to go to heaven, right?"
	"Extreme unction, you mean, and yes, it would cleanse the soul....but it's only for the last moments, when death is imminent." The priest answered him again, reluctantly. He should have brought the man a catachism to entertain his fairy tale notion of reality. 
	"Can we talk about something else?"
	"Would you do this extreme...unction, as you call it?" the farmer interrupted him, ignoring him. "Please."
	" Look, I don't do that sort of thing anymore." 
	"Please, I'm begging you. I'll give you the lemonade mix or whatever you want, the lawn mower, anything, Please." The man's face was a mask of helplessness and the priest took pity on him. He would do this for the man he decided, if only to repay his host by easing his worry. It was nothing but a few words, a few gestures, and he wanted to meet the man's wife anyway.
	"Take me to your wife."
	The man jumped up, visibly brightened, "This way."
	The priest followed the farmed inside through the wood framed screen door, letting it bang shut behind him.
	Inside, the priest knew immediately something was very wrong. A hot acrid smell suffocated him, his eyes watering. The farmer was climbing a long flight of wooden stairs and the priest followed him with morbid curiosity. At the top of the steps, the man stopped, gesturing with his open hand into the master bedroom. The priest climbed the rest of the way, passing the farmer, a wariness growing in him. He entered the bedroom. 
47	The woman had been dead a long time. How long, he could not say, but her body had begun to decompose, dark spots of flesh punchuated her colorless skin. She was dressed all in white and by the large bed was a small end table with a vase of white flowers, also dead. She laid on the bed, arms folded across her chest, eyes wide open. Her lips and half opened mouth formed a twisted smile where rigormortis had contracted her facial muscles. The priests' eyes watered as he did everything he could do to fight back his gag reflex. He turned to the farmer, the farmer was holding a straight razor in his hand, a madness in his eye. The priest stepped back, adrenaline peaking, preparing himself for attack, but the attack did not come. 
	Instead, the farmer took the straight razor and opened his own wrists, first one then the other. Dropping the razor, he pushed past the priest and sat on the bed. He leaned over and kissed the corpse on it's folded hands. Blood leaked everywhere, a steady flow as life drained from the man, staining the pure white bed a blood red. 
	"Do it, " the farmer implored, "Before it's too late."
	With a sick realization, the priest realized what the man wanted. He stood there, transfixed, horrified by the scene that was playing out before him. 
	"Do it, you promised."
48	The priest patronized the man, playing his role in this man's dark drama. He stepped forward, laying hands on the man, saying the words, making the gestures. The man turned an ashen pallor and collapsed on his dead wife. He was dead and the priest was alone once more. 
	In the world that now was he had seen many a disturbing sight but this was a dark thing, a perversion of all that he no longer believed in. 
	He quickly left the house making sure the dog was out, but before doing so, he set his flame to anything that would burn. 
	He mounted the horse and rode towards the road, stopping once on the highway to turn and watch the blaze. The funeral pyre that consumed all trace of the man and his wife. He made the sign of the cross and said a silent prayer for the dead. Taking Pascal's Wager, praying just in case he was wrong. Just in case. 


























NOW 

49	David came back with shovel.
	They took turns digging, sweat glistening their bows, the summers sun hot upon their skin. Bo had not returned and so they proceeded without him, The younger men carried the woman and Sarah carried the child and laid them both in the shallow grave. The remaining members of their group stood in a half circle around their grave while the priest said the words, his voice carrying away in the breeze that whipped across the river. Tears streaked the faces of both Naomi and Dinah, thought they remained silent. Aaron comforted his wife while Sarah let the little girl mourn, knowing that this fresh tragedy was merely one of the many come. The world now being what it was, would surely reveal hideous things to any that survived.
	As the priest closing his prayers, Bo could be seen returning from the street walking slowly but stolidly, eyes moist but mouth set in grim determination. The approached them and they gave way, opening the semi circle to him, unfolding him in their presence.

	He was angry. He had been taught all his life to do the right thing, to trust and believe. Faith waved lead him through the darkness and everything would be alright because it had to be that way, because he was good, and good things happen to good people. Bad things happen to bad people, to simmers, to everyone but him. He thought that this, all of this, must be punishment for some unrecognized evil he had done or some deep flow in his soul. Why? He begged, Why ?, he pleaded what was the reason, the cause of this divine retribution being visited upon him.
	He could see no reason. He is believing on the purity of his own faith, and the righteousness of his own life. And so grew in him an anger darker than any other. That justified rage. The all-consuming anger of a man who believes he is blameless. In his mind he raged against the world  and its small band of survivors who accompanied him. He raged against all the nature, and of course all of heaven who had allowed him, Him, the Lord’s trusted servant, to suffer so. And he raged against that bitch wife of his who had  stolen his child and herself from him. 
50	And he raged too at the accountant who handed him the shovel so that he would bury them. As he took the shovel he thought, no, knew, that things would never be the same. He had tried so hard to follow every precept, to the letter of the law, and for his effort he had received the wages of the wicked man. A miscarriage of divine justice had occurred and the only rationale for this, a corrupt, or worse, a hateful judge.
	As Bo hefted the shovel, throwing dirt into the grave, the others watched in silence. They could feel the anger, the hate emanating from him; so strong, it was, that the skin on the priests’ neck prickled with fear. A foreboding, unexplainable fear. Sarah too felt that quit sense of danger beneath the rage, and her eyes caught those of the priests, as they turned away to leave the shoveling man in peace.
	They had not eaten yet that day and so Naomi and Maria began to prepare a meal , pouring fruit cocktail into cups for everyone. 
	“Get the fire going.”  
	Sarah spoke to the boys, not singling any one out. David was crouching next to the embers of the previous nights fire, poking them with a stick. 
	“There’s a house up the river.”  He paused, the waiting for the others to turn their attention towards him.
	“Its where I found the shovel.”  No one had asked where it came from, an object so ordinary that it received not a second glance. He went on. 
	“I think there might be other stuff that we can use.”
	For a moment he led the whole group of them, his words commanding, kingly ; and then he was himself again, the half boy half man. 
	“Will you guys come with me?” He was asking Joe and Ben whose immediate response was to stand enthusiastically.
51	“Let’s Do it.”
	“We need to build the fire first.” David slowed them down, their excitement for this new brand of exploration almost morbid. Jack stood from the cinderblock he sat upon and bid the boys to go on. 
	“I’ll get it, go ahead boys”.
	David went and retrieved one of the bookbags emptying its contents on the ground, zippering it and slinging it across his back. Joseph and Ben followed his lead gearing up for their scouting mission. The priest was watching them and finally spoke the question burning in his mind.
	“Did… did you see any people there, in the house”
	David looked over at him, suddenly years older than he had been just a few days before.
	“Yeah, they were dead.”
	He turned back towards the hillside approaching the street and led the two older boys out of the camp.
	“It’s up ahead always” David pointed down the windy two-lane road that lay empty before them. “Across the road from the river.”
	The road they were on had intersected the though to the bridge, and followed the river along its length, stretching for miles in the distance. They were just beyond the southeast edges of the suburban area and were facing the direction of a more rural area. What David like to call “the Boonies”. David had lived most of his short life in the city, at one or another of the homes for boys, before going to stay with his elderly uncle. He had been kicked out of every place he had resided in save for the last, and would have been if it had not burnt to the ground in the first wave of fires.
52	It had been a few weeks since it had happened and its memory it was still fresh. He had been in the living room at his uncles large oak desk, writing, when he heard people in the street. It seemed as if everyone who lived on his block was there. Curiosity, or perhaps boredom led him outside to the street where he joined the others, pointing and looking at the sky. Steaks of read fire were tracing the sky, hundreds, no thousands of the, their trajectories bearing them to different destination some close, some far and as they reached there target, these would be a loud deafening roar, a trembling through the earth and a hot white light incinerating everything in its path. Suddenly everyone was running, screaming. He was momentarily deaf, but the shouts could be seen on their lips. They could be felt, their cries piercing the very core of his existence. His hearing came back, the cacophonic music of chaos filling his mind.
	He was running. His uncle he remembered. He was still laying in his recliner, oblivious to his surroundings. Infirm and well beyond the age of caring about anything but his coffee and cigarettes. He turned back in the direction of the house to warm him and it was only a ball of fire. A fire so hot the structure fell in on itself in a heap of cinders only minutes after it had begun.
	He shielded his eyes. He was sweating from the heat, it felt as if the asphalt itself was on fire. He ran again, abandoning all hope of home. Houses everywhere were either burning or exploding, the fire still falling from the sky reigning down death on whole communities, cities. People were exiting their cars en masse, the traffic being impassable, and scattering in all directions, people seemingly not knowing which way to go. A ball of fire was heading towards him from one side of the street. It was a man burning, his hair, clothes on fire, his face contorted with pain screaming for help as he ran straight for David. He was tearing at his clothes, smacking himself in the head when he feel face first in the street. 
	David continued to run. He felt like he had been running forever when he felt the chaos around him lessening. He stopped to catch his breath, bent over, hands upon his knees, heaving gasping for air while fighting back tears, his skin hot and sticky as if sun burnt by the fires of hell. He was in the parking lot of the church, the church he’d had to do community service at a  summer ago. He looked around, the church seemed to be the only building still standing, its great stone structure an anomaly upon the blackened landscape.
53	He remembered going into the church and finding the others huddled inside, he was scared and alone and they had consoled him. The memory so sharp that he could feel the heat of the fire on his skin as he looked upon the burned out structures that sat high atop the river valley’s rocky walls in the distance.
	“Dave” Joe  nearly yelled the boys name. “David”
54	“Huh?” He look towards the young man.
	“Isn’t this it?”
	“Yeah” 
	He had almost led them right past the driveway to the house, so absorbed he was in his own thought. They turned onto a narrow gravel drive that led off of the river road. It traversed a short hill eventually wrapping around to a long wooden garage, its paneled walls painted a faded green now peeling and cracking under the pressure of mother nature's perpetual march of seasons. A concrete sidewalk wound off of the driveway alongside the garage and up to the lower door of a large red brick house. It was perhaps three stories high with a deck above, jutting from the side of the structure leading to another door to an upper level.
	They entered into what was the basement, the door unlocked, opened before them revealing large space cluttered with a variety of objects, the possessions of some family, abandoned to their fate. The space was dimly lit, the light from a few glass block windows piercing the darkness. The shadows in the darkness grew into familiar objects, a couch, a dresser, a gaming table. A myriad of things on racks of shelving, tools and every kind of home improvement supplies, and toys, children’s toys were everywhere. In baskets, scattered about the floor as if playing children had been called to dinner, their playthings awaiting their return. 
	“Oh yeah” The excitement on Ben’s face was visible as he began to move about the room, searching, exploring, his natural inquisitiveness and energy almost overwhelming. 
	“Look at these”
	He pointed into a corner where they could see a number of fishing rods learning against the wall, a tangle of poles and monofilament. Joe began moving toward the corner, stepping over boxes and leaning over an ancient console television to reach the fishing gear. On the cement floor was a box of tackle which he picked up and passed to his brother, followed by the rods. Ben place the equipment handed to him by the door that they had entered and continued to explore. David followed as the two brothers begun climbing a short flight of unfinished wooden steps to the living area above. Reaching the top he turned to enter a beautifully decorated room, brightly painted with fine dark, rich hardwood floors. The people who had lived here had obviously taken great care in the upkeep of their household, yet it was well lived in. The business of daily activity could be seen everywhere, a whole collection of shoes by the door, mail on a bureau, more toys scattered on the floor. It had the feel of a successful working class family ingrained with a deep blue collar work ethic. To Joe and Ben, sons of mill worker, it felt like home. 
	They continued their exploration, entering a dining room, then the kitchen, opening cabinets and drawers, finding food, an array of dried and canned goods, a families provisions. They took what they could and continued their hunt.
55	“Hey Dave, where are the…” Joe paused, “the bodies?”

	David looked back at him, eyebrows furrowed, wondering what he was taking about.
	“The people who lived here…. you said they were dead….. where are they?”
	“Oh, I don’t know. I just said that because...” he looked back and forth from Joe to Ben “… because everyone’s dead, everywhere”
56	Everyone wasn’t dead , that was clear enough from the fact that they had survived, but Joe could see how that idea was easily believable. Their small group where the only living beings they had seen since it all began, but he clung to bit of the natural optimism he had carried his whole life. bHe had always considered it a blessing, the ability to crack an easy smile and hope for the best, but now… the bleakness of reality was strangling that optimism, crushing it beneath the realization of how things now were.
	“That’s dark man”  Ben, the younger of the brothers by a few years, was nonplussed. A smile was on his lips. The smile of a man who dealt with all the pantheon of emotion the same way, with humor. To laugh at the dark comedy that is existence in order to escape its crushing weight.  Atlas, laughing at himself, too busy to shoulder his burden.
	They moved about in silence, David heading up another flight of steps to the third story, Ben and Joe finding a study, then a children’s bedroom. 
	“We should get the pillows and blankets”
	“They might have sleeping bags”  Ben replied, “probably even a tent somewhere. Ben I’ll go check it out.” 
	Ben headed back down to the basement, first stopping by the kitchen to grab a box of plastic garbage bags. Joe stripped the children’s bunkbeds of their bedding, carrying it out and setting them by the basement steps. There was a master bedroom as well and inside he found a carton of cigarettes, and in a dresser drawer were clothes, men’s and women’s. He was rummaging through underclothes and socks, selecting a few items when he felt a soft case that he recognized instantly. He freed it from the drawer, unzipped the triangular case and revealed a shiny forty five caliper revolver compete with a box of shells. He zipped the case and placed it in his bookbag and turned to reexamine the room. They had not even thought about guns and only by luck had he found this one. He knew also that there had to be more. Everything about the house spoke of the type of people these were, the family who had lived here, and he innately knew that there were least a few shotguns somewhere and definitely camping equipment.
	It took him only a few minutes to find, a gun case in the study. He broke the glass door and found two shotguns, a rifle and a small 32 caliper semi automatic pistol. He pried open a locked drawer below and removed on assortment of shells for the weapons, placing them in his pack.
57	As he was leaving study, carrying his find, he heard music. Coming from upstairs was the melody of a classic rock song, being plucked out on a guitar. He put the guns down by the steps and headed upstairs. His brother had heard the music as well and was coming up from the basement.
	They found David in an upstairs bedroom, once inhabited by a teenager roughly David's age. He was sitting on the bed, a beautiful, melodic song emerging from the acoustic guitar in his arms. His playing was brilliant, hypnotic, and they stood in silence, listening. When he was finished, he looked up at the two brothers, questioning, as if unsure of his own talent.
	“Oh, you’re definitely bringing that my man”
	“For sure”
	A few minutes later they were trekking back to the camp under the bridge arms and packs loaded
	That evening the ragged of survivors supped on fresh fish fried on a portable Coleman stove. They had erected two tents, one of which the girls would occupy. Joe, Ben the priest and David agreed to sleep outside in sleeping bags, allowing Aaron and Jack to share the smaller two man tent.
58	They were around the fire, all eleven of them save for Bo, who huddled away from the others against the stone wall. He had not spoken since the morning, his dark words still resonant in their minds. Naomi stood from her cinderblock seat and approached the broken man. She sat beside him, indian style, drawing in the dirt with her hand, unsure of what to say. She could feel his anger, and realized that at least part of his hatred was directed at her, at them. She tried to speak but the words froze in her throat, her mouth moving soundlessly.
	He looked into her eyes.
	“Just leave me be, please just leave me be.” 
	His words were softly spoken with a gently imploring tone, but underneath, there was hostility disguised as courtesy and his eyes were icy cold.
	As quickly as she had come, she stood again, reseating herself with the others. They were discussing their next move, their immediate future. There was talk of staying in the house, but this notion was quickly dispelled. They would move on away from the city. They would look for others, survivors. Surely there had to be someone who  was in charge, or at least some  structure of civilization, something vaguely familiar. Someone to put back together the broken pieces.
They spoke well into the night, deciding that on the morrow they would put as much space as they could between themselves and the death behind them.
	“Play for us, Dave” Ben requested.
59	“Come on, yeah” Dinah echoed as she rested her head, leaning, on Sarah’s shoulder, tired and almost asleep.
	David rose, and retrieved the guitar from where he had set it against the wall. He sat again and began to pick at instrument. The music was sweet to their ears, soothing, seemingly relieving them of their fears, their anxieties, even if only for a time. He played for a long while, and when he was done he set the instrument down beside him.
	“That was beautiful David” Sarah complimented.
	“Where did you learn to play like?”  Naomi asked.
	David just shrugged and looked into the fire, silent, brooding. Dinah could sense David's uncomfortability with the attention he was receiving and so in a small soft voice she began to sang her own song, growing louder as she become more confident. Others joined her, David, Naomi, all of the rest, smiling, their pain melting away with the melody.
This little light of mine, I’m gonna let it shine 
 This little light of mine, I’m gonna let it shine
This little light of mine, I’m gonna let it shine
Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine,
Won’t let Satan put it out, I’m gonna let it shine
Won’t let Satan put it out, I’m gonna let it shine
Won’t let Satan put it out, I’m gonna let it shine
Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine,
60	The song carried far into the night, their voices carrying on the midsummer nights’ breeze. But one voice did not join the others. Bo, alone in his mind, losing the war with his anger, a cancer metastasizing in his soul.
#
	In the morning they gathered up there belongings and headed southeast, staying on the road that ran alongside the river, and away from the suburbs and the city behind him. The two lane road they followed was not as congested as the roads behind them, yet not empty enough to drive upon, the ghost drivers having abandoned their vehicles often leaving doors wide open, as they fled whatever horror pursued them. Through patch of woods to their left lay the river, to their right, the railroad tracks running the base of the steeply sloping valley walls, rocky where it was not wooded. Around midday the rocky walls to their right opened before them revealing an old industrial town, once the heart of the steel mill that lay up ahead along the river. Except there was no longer a town, and their was no longer a mill, instead there was a blackened waste where there once was the machinery of industry. Nothing remained, as if this place in particular bore the brunt of the destruction.
	Jack could not take his eyes off of the place where the mill had been. It had always seemed so indestructibly huge, this place where he had labored most of his life. As they passed, they could feel heat radiating from the dead place, and a red glow radiated from ashy piles. The coal that was once used for the production of steel still burned hotly leaving embers in the wreckage. A disheartening feeling welled up inside Jack, the priest could feel it as well. Once a testament to the industry of the region, a monument to the tenacity and work ethic generations, a fixture in the soul of the people,  gone in the blink of an eye.
	They were hungry and thirsty but they pushed on, hurrying away from this dead place, the ghosts of a city, a region in pursuit.
	“The other day you asked if I had someone, back home in the city” Maria had caught up to the priest and tell in beside him. “I didn’t. I mean don’t have anyone”
61	“I didn’t mean to upset you.”
	“Well, that’s the upsetting part, not having anyone”  The priest was silent, it was his vocation to listen, and he felt her need now. 	
	“My mother was taken when I was eleven, when I was at school. She came here years ago. It was easier then, easier than it is now. Well, maybe not now but… well you know what I mean. Anyway she was illegal, but I was born here, so I wasn’t. One day she just didn’t come home from work. I would always help start dinners and I did that day. I waited and waited and she just never came back.”
	“She had worked for the same lady since before I was born. So I called her and she told me they had done a sweep, and just like that everything changed for me. The lady my mom worked for tried to help a little, but she probably just felt guilty. She called some social service agency and next thing you know I was in a faster home….”  She trailed off at that and remained quiet for a few moments, saying more with her silence than with her words.
	“I ran away from there after a while”
	She was quit again.
	“Anyway, I never found out what happened to my mother, I guess maybe she tried coming back, but who knows what happened, I know she wouldn’t have left me, so something must’ve happened, and that’s really the worst fucking part, not knowing.”
62	They walked in silence for a moment. Maria remembering, the priest, waiting for the rest, compassionate, empathetic.
	“I always wanted to go down there and look for her, you know. Maybe she couldn’t get back. I always meant to go… but, but stuff always happened.”  She didn’t elaborate. And, as if in justification, she continued.
	“You know I’ve been on my own since then, since the foster home. I , I lived on the streets for a while.”
	She glanced nervously towards the priest, looking for signs of rejection, the rejection she feared so much, that was itself a form of abandonment so crippling to her sense of worth, a judgment on her intrinsic value as a person, as a woman. He did not judge her and his acceptance was evident in his face, his body language, his whole being.
	“I got into some bad stuff….. I was really messed up for a while.”  She suddenly smiled, laughed at herself.
	“Hell, I was messed up until just the other day…. now we’re all fucked huh?”
	“That we are” He laughed with her. She bumping into him playfully. A shiver of excitement swept over him without his consent.
A1	They walked on.
#
	They looked like band of refugees fleeing an urban apocalypse with everything they owned strapped to their backs. The weight of their load was taking its toll on the travelers, the tents, the food, the guns, not least though, their memories.  Their thoughts bearing down on them like a cinderblock tethered to an already drowning man. When the sun, so unaffected by this catastrophe of mortals, began to dip from the hazy sky, they began to look for a suitable place to camp. They found it in an empty car of a freight train .
	They left the road, climbing the short gravel hillside to the railroad tracks, the loose rocks sliding from beneath their feet as they scrambled up the short hill. They walked the length of the train, David out front, until they reached the great black locomotive, it’s painted steel and reflective metal massive and forbidding, as if it fit  into this strange world. As if, up until a few days ago, it was the anomaly, a strange creature in the regular world of ago, but now, perfectly at home. David looked at it and shuddered, expecting it to roar to life, animated by those dark gods of fire and steel. He turned back to the others following. 
	“One of these cars has to be empty.” 
	They began to walk back down the length of the train, passing the giant box cars, their colors faded. Blues, reds and oranges with white stenciled lettering to display their owner's names, their required legal markings, suddenly so anachronistic. A few cars back from the locomotive they found a car whose sliding gate was half open. David reached above him, finding a handhold on the great metal door and pulled himself up and into the car. He used his body weight to push the heavy door the rest of the way open, allowing the light of the sun to pierce the darkness.
	There was a movement from behind him, a low rustle, a shadow that should have been still, and he spun suddenly alert. A figure darted out of the shadows, quick and nimble, rushing past David, jumping from the freight car into the fading sunlight. David, startled, just stared at the man who had landed almost at the feet of the other. He looked dirty, wearing old blue jeans and wrinkled T-shirt. His hair was long and mussed and he held a small canvas backpack in his hand. He looked wildly from person to person, backing away from the group with wide fearful eyes, seemingly afraid that he would be grabbed at any moment by these people. 
	“I didn’t mean too.. I didn’t mean to.”  He repeated, the fear transparent in his voice, his tone a sharp defensive shrill. “You won’t see me no’ ……….” 
	He pleaded, still backing away. “I promise you that….. you wont see me no mo”. 
	The priest and the others began to respond, their pleas to “calm down” and Jack repeating. “It’s alright buddy” seemed to mix in the air, their voice driving the man back further. He turned, clutching his pack to his chest with both hands and fled, kicking up loose gravel behind him and stumbling on the tracks as he ran from some past or imagined foe. They watched him, his skinny legs pumping hard, carrying him away down the tracks and then off into the woods alongside the tracks.
	Jack had wore a wry expression on his face, almost laughing. He turned to the others, raising and eyebrow. He could see the confusion on their faces, and even a little fear. Naomi retreating to her husband arms, Dinah looking as though she was unsure if she should be afraid. 
	“Know what that was?”  And to put them at ease, he answered his own question. “That was a real time train jumper, a drifter.” 
A2	“A hobo?” David asked. 
	“That’s right, a hobo, probably harmless.” 
	“Do you think he’ll be back?” Naomi was asking, still a little shaken. 
	“Nah, I doubt it. He’s seemed to be a little scareder of us than we of him.” 
	The priest was still looking in the direction the man ran off in. He spoke softly, directed at no one in particulars. “I believe he’s about to find out he missed the end of the world.”
	Inside the boxes they found a small bedroll in the corner, really just an old wool blanket and a few shirts rolled up to create a pillow. The whole car was alive with smells, the smell of grease and oil, and where the bed was, they detected the scent of urine and body odor. Bo and Ben had joined David in the car and David had walked to where the blanket lay, picking it up gingerly between his index finger and thumb, holding it out from his body, wrinkling his nose while he carried it to the open door of the train car. Ben looked over at the priest, still standing on the ground then pointed at the blanket, ragged and full of holes. 
	“Look, it’s a holy blanket.” 
	The priest gave a silent chuckle, while Joe just looked at his younger brother, shaking his head, with a look of mock disapproval. 
	“I can’t believe I’m related to you.” 
	David just grinned as he threw the blanket out onto the ground. 
	“We need to get some air in here, it smells like funky old corn chips.”
	Jack insisted on setting up the two man tent for himself, even though the others decided to sleep in the train car. Until then they laid their blankets about the fire on the other set of tracks, having nothing to sit upon, and sat on the ground supping on rice in chicken broth and pan fried dough. 
	“David, wanna play for us?” Joe asked. 
	“Not really, maybe in little while. He was brooding again, lost in his world of thought. 
	“Grandma always tells me good stories.” Dinah looked up at her grandmother, with whom she shared a blanket, her eyes imploring the older woman to share from her deep well of lore. The older woman was eating still, slowly sipping the hot broth. 
	“Perhaps in a bit child”. Her ancient eyes smile, twinkled as she spoke, as if she did have access to some secret world, whose magic she guarded. She looked at the priest and nodded towards him. 
	“He probably has a few. She lifted her eyebrows at the priest, still smiling.” 
	“Tell us one” Dinah begged. Maria followed with her own plea, sounding childlike herself, “Yeah, come on, tell us one.” 
	“Okay, okay let me think.” 
	The priest sat, looking into the fire. A few moments passed. 
	“I can’t really think of anything, just a story, someone told me a long time ago. It’s not really a story though, it’s more of an anecdote.” 
	He saw her confused expression then. 
	“An antidote?” 
	He smiled. 
	“An anecdote, ah…. It’s really short story that’s supposed to be true, supposed to have happened.” 
	“Oh.” 
A3	So, when I was little older than you, I would go with my mom who would bring old people, shut-ins, holy communion. One of the places she would go was nursing home that was on the second floor of an old hotel up the road from our house. We would go there once a month on a Sunday after church, my mom dressed in her fine Sunday clothes carrying her rosary beads and the little gold case where the hosts were. I would be dressed in my slacks and white shirt, the top button always buttoned, choking me with my tie on, and my hair perfectly parted. “
	Dinah giggled at this. 
	“Awww how cute”. Maria said giggling with the grin. 
	“Well, the old people loved me, they would pinch my cheeks, and fawn on me, and ask me a million questions, and, well, I didn’t mind really. Some of the people were really interesting, and there was this one guy, this one guy who was just so fascinating. He had grown up in Europe at the beginning of the last century and he would tell me, in his thick Austrian accent, what is was like to grow up in the mountains of a continent far far away in an age long past.
	I remember the words the man had spoken, his thick accent and the faraway look he assumed, 'I remember being your age, not knowing a thing about anything, and I remember too, how great it was to not know how much I didn’t know and then how terrible it was to learn what I must, each lesson infinitely harsher than the last. There were three.'  He paused, slowly holding up three, wrinkled, ancient fingers. 'There are three such lessons. Three things in my life that taught me what I needed to know, and oh what I would have giving to learn without having lost so much.' He paused again, sighing, looking into some faraway distance, looking into the past. 'The first was my pants.' 
	'We lived in the mountains, high in the mountains, the harsh crags and bluffs sharp and dangerous yet so beautiful. It was spring and the fields were full of grasses and wildflowers, the snow melting, nourishing the land with fresh cool mountain water. I was tending our heard of goats, we were goat herders, my family, and I was laying on a warm rock, soaking in the sun. The goats didn’t need much tending, they stayed pretty much together, eating, grazing and if one did get separated I could always find it by listening for the tink-tink of the bell they each wore around their necks. Well, on this day I was laying on a rock, I had just drank fresh warm milk, and before long I had fallen asleep, right there in the sun. Well, goats are ornery on there best days and most of the time they are downright mean, and while I slept, they up and ate my pants. He stopped then smiling waiting for a reaction.' 
	'Goats eat pants?'
	'They do, especially if you pants are made of paper.'
	'Paper pants?'
	'Uh-huh, My pants were made from paper, my mom would make them, and these pants that the goat ate, well, they were my only pair of pants. So that night I go home, and I know I’m going to be in trouble, and I am. My father made me go out and pick a switch from a tree to beat me with, and it had to be a good one too, because if it broke before he was through, well then I’d have to go pick another and the he would start again.' 
	Again he stopped, waiting for my reaction to this description of old-world discipline. 
	'But that wasn’t the worst part. The worst part was that it would take many days for my mother to make me a new pair of pants. And, well, I still had to tend the goats, I still had to run errands. I still had to deliver milk.'
	'With no pants?'
	'With no pants. I remember walking down the lane carrying two bottles of milk and I had tried to cover myself with some old rags, but they fell off and I bent to put the bottles down so I could cover myself and it was just then that I saw the neighbor girl who lived down the lane. She was always so beautiful, so pretty and she was standing there laughing and laughing and she said “where’d your pats get off to?” 
A4	'I was so embarrassed. But the important part wasn’t that she saw me or that I was embarrassed, the point is that, no matter what, no matter who saw me, I still had no pants until new ones were made. I hadn’t even done anything wrong, the goats had. I had merely fell asleep. I wasn’t paying attention when I should have been, and you should never fall asleep if you only have one pair of pants.' 
	He stopped then as if this should come as some profound revelation. 
	'Years later I was a young man, living in that same mountain village, herding the goats in those same mountain passes. We had heard that our country was at war that the whole world was at war. The great war they were calling it. We were poor, as was our village, and the war itself was far removed from us, from our daily life of herding goats and delivering milk. I was young and I longed to travel. I wanted to see the world. I craved excitement and adventure. I decided to go to the city to enlist. My parents were furious, but they couldn’t stop me. I left early in the morning one day before they were awake and I walked for three days to the city.' 
	He paused again, remembering. 'I spent the next three years in the bottom of a trench in fair France. I heard their sunrises were beautiful, but I was never privileged enough to see one, the sky eternally black. And the smell. The shit and the piss. The rats and the disease and the death. The death everywhere. Well, there was a boy there, even younger than me, even more scared than me. We had both obviously lied about our age to enlist but no one cared a bit. What they cared about was that when they called for a charge, we went. And it was on one black day that this boy, well, he got stuck on the latter, the ladder out of the trench into no man’s land. He got to the top, men swarming up ladders to either side of him, swarming like ants as the Brits reigned down hell all around us. I was in front of the boy, I had just come over the top, scared shitless and I spun around. I wanted to go back down. I wanted to jump back in the trench and when I looked back over the edge an officer was aiming a handgun at the boy, yelling of him to move, move. Without thinking I grabbed the boy, pulling him up by his shirt, running, him following, finally taking refuge in a foxhole. We both survived that day but the boy, he died the very next day, and he died saving me. To this day I don’t know how he knew, but he did know, of that I’m certain. A shell was falling from that dark sky and for certain it had our names writ upon it and somehow he knew. He literally threw me to safety. I walked away that day and he didn’t, and it was a long time before I forgave him for that. I was this close to freedom. This close to the end.' He made a motion with his fingers, holding his index finger and thumb a hair breath apart. “
	'And? Well, I survived the war and went and found the boy’s family, to tell them of the boy’s heroism, the boy that was too scared to climb the ladder. Well, the boy had a sister, and she was beautiful. And well, we got married and we had a boy of our own, and of course we named him after his uncle, Moshe and he grew up like his father,       herding goats and I would always tell him, “Don’t fall asleep, the goats will eat your pants.” 
A5	'Well my boy grew up, there in the mountains and then the world went mad once again. Except now it was different. That nation that I, that my wife’s brother had so valiantly fought for, turned against us, killing its own with a mad viciousness, a bloodlust fueled by a madman. We fled, my wife and I, our son, we fled. Everything we had, we sold, traveling by land first, then by sea. We were turned away at the port in France. I remember everyone on the boat was sick, starving, unable to enter this new land like Moses at the River Jordan, yet we could not go back. We found a length of rope on the boat and we tied ourselves together and we jumped off the boat, swimming for our freedom. Well, we made it and we settled in. I found work easily enough as a laborer, half the country after all was away at war, and we lived on a farm, but before long my son came to us, announcing that he like me, was going to enlist, to go fight this monster we had just escaped from that was threatening all of Europe. His mother was as angry as mine had been, and I was none too pleased, but there was no stopping him. He said to me, “The world has gone mad, we have all fallen asleep and the goats have eaten our clothes.”  He went. 
	'To this day, I do not know what became of him, though I pray for him every day, still do I pray for him. But, did he die, you ask? Maybe, maybe not. Soon after he left, they came. Fair France again becoming a wasteland while we became prisoners, starving numbers destined for a black fate. We were hearded onto a train, shoved in boxcars and shipped off to some unknown destination. I remember then the last I saw of my wife, as she went one way and I the other, her yelling after me that we would surely see each other shortly after we were taken, presumably, to our separate barracks. And I remember too, when the young victors came to rescue us. I would run up to this one or that, showing them a photo of a twelve year old Mosh, years before the war, asking them if they had seen my son, perhaps fought with him, maybe they knew where he was stationed. The futility of it was lost on me. A fools fool, fit for an asylum, crazy I had become by then. Mad, almost as mad as the world about me.'  
	He stopped then, with an unmistakable finality, but there were questions begging to be answered. And of course, the lessons, what were they, what could possibly tie that tragedy in with the goats, my eleven year old brain wanting to know, waiting for an answer. Yet the old man seemed to just stare as if there were no lessons, or had perhaps he had just been rambling, forgetting what he had set out to say. But that could not be, his story had come out as if it had been told before and surely these lessons would be forthcoming. 
	“Well?” I asked prodding him. 
	“Why. Why is the question. Not well. Why?  And the answer, the answer is that there is no answer, not one that we are fit to behold, to understand. God has laid a miserable fate upon us. I have seen everything done in this world, and I tell you, it is all useless. It is like chasing the wind. You cannot straighten out what is crooked. You cannot count things that aren’t there. Good people may die while others live on, even though they are evil. The truth is this. It is a mad, mad world. There is no rhyme or reason the least bit comprehensible to us mortals. Suffering has always been, will always be. We are no better than the animals, than the goats. The same fate awaits human beings and animals alike. One dies just like the other. They are the same kind of creature, life has no meaning for either. They are both going to the same place – the dust. So work and enjoy the fruits of your labor. Eat and drink and love but remember, one thing is certain in this lunatic world. If you fall asleep, lulled by comfort, you may find that the mad goats have eaten your pants.'”
A6	The priest sat back, having concluded his story. The others reflecting quietly. He then leaned forward, towards the firelight and added,  “I can’t help but to think that the man on the train fell as sleep and while he was asleep, the goats ate his pants.”  David, had sat, listening, his usual pensive expression on his face. 
	“You mean, while we are sleeping, the goats ate everything. Everything.”
	They retired to the train that evening, all except Jack, who crept in the small tent, glad he wasn’t on that dark train, sleep eluding him thinking of the train from the priest’s story and other stories he had heard, or perhaps read, where the trains were always one way and nonstop . And when he slept there were nightmares. 
	They were all on the train and they were screaming for the train to stop. There was something on the tracks. It was a baby, it was crying, yet the train blindly rushed along. Its passengers begging the conductor to stop, and the conductor was Ruth, and instead of slowing she was throttling the locomotive and her husband was behind her, standing tall and proud, wearing the uniform of a SS Officer, yelling at her to go faster, the words coming out in that guttural foreign language. Faster and faster, and then the train was falling through space, falling, its passengers being sucked downward by gravity towards something, some unknown, and Jack was falling, spinning through the air, the train gone, the ground closing in on him.
	And he was awake. Panting, looking around, catching his breath. He steadied his breath and lay back down again, trying to sleep, but sleep would not come. It was early in the morning, still dark, when he unzipped the flap of the tent and stepped out. 
	Boom. The sound of the shotgun echoed through the river valley pulling every sleeper from their dreams. The priest was the first up, rushing to the door of the freightcar, stepping over his fellow travelers. He saw jack standing by his tent, holding the shotgun, looking toward the wooded area. He saw the priest looking at him. 
	“I’m going to need a hand.”  He was smiling. The priest jumped down as the other gathered in the doorway of the box car. 
	“What is it?” Naomi asked, rubbing sleep from her eyes. 
	“What happened?” Maria looking concerned. Sarah and Aaron as well. Jo and Ben hurriedly jumped from the train, heading towards the woods. Joe looking back, speaking to his brother but answering their questions, “Looks like Pop got us a deer.”
They didn’t set out that day until well afternoon having spent the warm morning butchering the animal and frying up steaks. And when they did finally break camp they were a little more invigorated than they were the day before. 
#
A7	“So, where exactly are we headed?” They had been walking for a short while when Aaron turned and addressed the others. “We were trying to get away from the city. Right?” 
	“Right” said the priest. There were a few nods of agreement. 
	“Well, it seems like we are pretty much out of the city. Well outside it in fact. There were more nods. 
	“So…..?”  He dragged out the word, turning it into an open question. Aaron’s gaze swept across the others finally landing on Jack, then the priest. The priest stopped walking. It wasn’t just Aaron looking at him. So was Jack, and Sarah, even the girl Dinah. Ben and David, who had been trailing behind, pulled into the group forming a loose circle around him. They were waiting for an answer, they were waiting for him to answer. 
	“I guess we keep going until we,” he hesitated for but a moment, not long enough to reveal the depth of his indecision. “We find others, some semblance of life.”
	“Maybe the army has something set up somewhere, camps or something.” Naomi said, all though she didn’t sound as hopeful as her words suggested. 
	“Ma'am, you sure do have good deal of faith in the government, if you ask me it's the government that got us into this mess in the first place. The priest gave a low chuckle, he had heard Jack’s anti-government rant already and it was not without merit. 
	“Maybe so, what we know for sure is that there is nothing where we came from, but there maybe something ahead of us. There are a number of smaller towns along the river here. It maybe we’ll find people, and at the very least we’ll find food and shelter to last us until we do find people.” 
	“Well, the reason I asked is….” Aaron paused, the attention once again focused on him. “I have an idea. We’ve been on foot for a few days and we have a good bit of stuff. The food, the tents, the fishing gear. And we’re not all exactly spring chickens…” Aaron paused, dragging out his last statement as if leading up to some finale. 
	“Are you suggesting we drive?” Bo jutted in “cause the roads are still bad. It’s not bumper to bumper, but we still couldn’t get more than a thousand feet without having to get out and change cars.” 
	“No, not drive,” Aaron continued, a twinkle now in his eye, a grin spreading out across his face, “not a car at least, but a boat.”  He looked around of the other smiling. 
	”A pontoon boat. If we keep along this road, we are sure to find one sooner or later. This road follows the river halfway across the state, and there are small river towns all along its length. Anywhere this road goes, the river does too. 
	He was looking back and forth among the others expectantly, a hopeful look on his face.
	“So, what do you think?” 
	he priest shrugged his shoulders and turned to look at the others. 
	“Any objections?” 
	“Heck no” Jack was smiling almost as wide as Aaron, “That’s a helluva good idea.” There were smiles and nods of assent from the others, everyone expect Maria. They began walking again, the priest walking alongside Maria, matching her pace. 
	“What’s a matter?  You don’t look so enthused.“
A8	“Is is that obvious?” She smiled good naturedely as she said this, then suddenly looked away in embarrassment. 
	“I’ve never been on a boat before.” He gave her that mischievous grin, smiling with his eyes. 
	“Are you scared?” She looked him from the corner of her eyes trying to suppress a grin. 
	“No.”  It came out exaggerated. 
	“You are, aren’t you?” 
	“And your teasing me.” 
	“May be.”  They were both laughing now. Any worry she had about the idea of a boat gone, dissolved in their laughter.  She put her hand on his shoulder to push him teasingly, but when she did she let her hand linger for but a second, and in that second, that single instant, he felt the electricity leap from her to him. He felt her warmth where her fingers touched him, and when he thought about it much later he still thought he could feel a light tingle there.
	They walked on all that day, passing many an abandoned car, but no promising boats. Nor did they expect to see one until they came to a town. They set up camp that night right beside the road, pitching their tents and building a fire. As the others sat around the fire listening to David play the guitar, Jack grabbed the fishing gear and approached the priest. 
	“Care to join me?” 

	“Sure, why not?” 
	The two mean headed down a short embankment to the waters’ edge. Jack handed the priest a pole, then crouched down rummaging through the tackle box. He pulled out a small plastic container, uncapped it, and removed two night crawlers. He handed one of the struggling creatures to the priest who proceeded to hook the worm 
	“Where’d you get them?” 
	“Back under the bridge” 
	Jack hooked his warm and cast into the river, the hook and worm and lead weights making a light splash as they landed far out in the water. The priest drew his rod back, throwing it foward and letting his finger off the line. The hook and worm flew through the air in a great arc landing to the left to Jacks. 
	“So what do you make of all this?” 
	“Hmm?” The priest look towards him. 
	“All of this? The airport, the school, everything? I mean, considering the number of other people we’ve seen, I’d say we were damn lucky to have survived.” He pulled out a pack of cigarettes from his pocket, offering the pack to the priest. “Cigarette?” 
	“No, I don’t... ya know what, give me one, why not.“  He reached and took one out of the pack. 
	“There you go, you just survived world war threw. I don’t think one cigarette’ll kill ya.“  
	He laughed, leaning towards the priest and lighting his cigarette then his own. The priest took a deep and coughed a puff of smoke. 
	”Shit, you aren’t supposed to swallow it.”  He resumed where he had left off. “I mean, what do you think the odds are, of us surviving like that.” 
	“I don’t know.” 
	The priest looked out the rippling water, the faint moon light barely making it through the thick dark cloud cover. 
	“They say the chance of life spontaneously evolving on earth is like million gazillion to one.” 
	Jack raised his eyebrows at the made up number. 
	“Did you say gazillion.” 
	“Yup.” 
	They both laughed at this. 
	“Anyway, so the chances are really, really small, Infinitesimally small…. better?” 	“Better” 
	“and this leads some people to believe that since the odds are so stacked against it, than it couldn’t have happened as scientists suggest. And its not just the chance of life springing up, it’s also that the ‘conditions’ for life are perfect here, even the very laws of physics and the properties of the elements all are so aligned, as if they conspire together to create the perfect conditions. And, some, alot, of people think this means that science has  nothing to do with it, that God instead did. But there is a very logical way to explain this apparently infinitesimal chance suddenly coming to fruition… It's in the very nature of our infinite universe. Eventually, in an infinite universe, no matter how small the chances are, eventually the perfect conditions would occur and life would happen. And we here are able to wonder at our own miraculous evolution and we say to ourselves 'how did we come to be, why us? When the chances are so, so small, when all of the universe is seemingly against us… and that the paradox of the observer, for on all the billions of planets where life failed to evolve, there is no one to sit back and say ‘why us’.” 
	“I’m pretty sure I’m picking up what your lay in down but, pardon me for sayin. So but, this all seems a mite strange coming from a man of the cloth.” 
	The priest smiled. 
	“Not so strange really.” 
	“How not, what about Adam and Eve and seven days and all that, how’s that jibe?” 	“Stories, our own brand of mythology. True insofar as the truths they reveal. But I like to think of God as infinite, as is his creation, more than just a few stories. I sometimes wonder if God doesn’t tire of our so limited viewpoints.” 
	“Humph, Interesting.” He took a final drag on the cigarette and flicked the butt, the hot cherry cutting through the darkness. 
	“So, we were pretty lucky to survive, but even more lucky to be born in the first place, what now?” 
	“With a little luck we’ll get through this.” 
	“But you don’t believe in luck, do you.” Jack was all of a sudden serious as he asked this. 	
	“Of course I do,” the priest laughed, “and yet, I don’t, not a bit.” 
	At the bend in the road they were able to see the first signs of a town ahead of them and as they approached it became apparent that it was not all destroyed. At least some of it had survived, and what had not were just charred remains of rows upon rows of adjoining buildings. As, if those buildings that had escaped the fires did so only because they were set apart from the others. Maria took all this in, in an instant, and there it was, suddenly and without warning, that voice in her head. That demon that had been inside of her, that she believed she had escaped. It saw through her eyes, saw the intact grocery store ahead, knew what lay inside, knew it. From somewhere far away she heard the others talking, their faraway voices saying something about a marina and a boat and she heard herself too, she heard herself participating in this conversation hearing her own words float to her ears as if coming from a thousand miles away. She heard herself saying that she would gather some supplies from the grocery store, and she knew it wasn’t her speaking. Not at all. Maria was no longer pulling the strings. That demon pet of hers, now awake, now in control. Having been asleep, dormant, beaten but never killed. Nay, never killed, not in this life. And it was hungry. She heard it speak through her mouth, telling that plausible lie, and then she was heading off in the direction of the store. And somewhere behind her Naomi was telling the others that she would help Maria. And the woman followed her, not to assist with the gathering of food, but because she saw it in her eyes. That insatiable hunger, that lurking demon, and she recognized it for what it was for she had one of her own and one surely recognizes its own.
	When Naomi found her, Maria was seated on the floor, knees drawn to her chest leaning against the imitation oak paneling of the pharmacy counter. She was clutching a white bottle of pills, turning it around and around in her hands, staring at it, staring through it. Naomi put her hand on the floor and eased her body into a sitting position next to the younger woman. 
	“I liked the downers myself, with alcohol that is. Always the alcohol first.” 	Maria turned to look at her, a questioning expression replacing the previous blank stare. 
	“Oh yeah, I used to do it up good. The booze and pills. Not exactly the same, but close enough. Close enough for government work as my husband would say.”  
	“Your…… you were alcoholic.” 
	“Honey, if you wanna dress it up and put it in nice words you can, but I’m what they call a fall-down, blackout drunk.” 
	Maria looked surprised, her eyebrows raised. She thought she was adept at reading people and Naomi, well, Naomi didn't give off that vibe.  She seemed way more put together than that. Almost classy.
	Naomi went on. 
	“You wanna hear about it? Unless of course you have other plans…” She let her eyes fall to the bottle in Maria’s hands. Maria stopped twirling the bottle and put it down on vinyl tile floor. She looked at Naomi and nodded. 
	“I used to be pretty when I was younger.” 
	“You’re still pretty.” Maria interrupted her. 
	“No, I mean real pretty. I mean was a knockout. like you.” 
	Maria blushed. 
	“And I had everything I needed. My family was good to me. No tragedy, nothing special. I was your average middle class girl from an average family. I say this because for a longtime I would ask myself, why would I do it to myself, and there was never a satisfactory answer. What I do know is that I always felt just slightly of place. I was pretty and popular, yet I always felt like a stranger in a strange land. In the middle of a crowd I would feel like I was alone, as an island unto myself, but I never let anyone know. Not ever. I was different, but I couldn’t let anyone know I was different. I realized later on that I was an actress, playing the part of whatever those around me wanted me to be, or what I thought they wanted me to be, and that acting, that role as a chameleon was the result of fear and self doubt. I was afraid of what others though of me, afraid of letting go, of being me. So I couldn't just let you see me, I had to give you something to see, a person crafted and molded to whatever specifications I believed you would like or want or love. I was afraid of everything, but as long as I had your acceptance I was okay. I made it all the way into college going on like that. Then something magical happened. I was a freshman and I went to a sorority party, and I drank. I still remember the night, the dim lights, the guys, even the smell…. especially the smell. I had sipped on a drink once or twice before that, but never drank in earnest. I remember that first instant, the warmth creeping through my body, working its magic. And I do say magic.   
A11	“It is magical, same as that stuff there.” She cast her chin up in the direction of the pill bottle. “It’s the afterward that’s not so magical as I’m sure you know. Anyway, when it hit me, it was like I suddenly knew a new happiness, a new freedom. I was unafraid, and that pervasive feeling I carried with me my whole life left me in an instant. I felt as if I could do anything, handled any situation….I was part of rather, than apart. It was nothing short of magical. 
	Naomi paused, taking a somber tone. “The feeling was gone the next day, and it was obvious how I could go about getting it again. And I chased that feeling for the next 16 years. I met Aaron in those years, when I was in college, and we got married after we both graduated. He’s very smart and he works hard and he started to become successful. God Bless him, he put up with my shit for so long.” 
	She smiled at that, Maria surprised to hear the woman curse. 
	“I was a stay at home wife, expect I didn’t stay at home. I would go to the bar, and I would come home drunk and say I was shopping or at the library or any of a thousand lies, and sometimes I would forget to come home. And sometimes I would wake up places, with people…and I wouldn’t remember how I had gotten there.”
	She paused, staring forward pensively. 
	“This went on for a long time. There were fights, so many fights. Promises…All of which were broke. I would promise to stop, I would try to stop, and I would mean it. When I promised to stop, I meant every word.” 
	She looked at Maria. 
	“and sometimes I could stop for a little while, but there was always that voice inside of me and it would get louder and Louder and LOUDER, and nothing, nothing would stop it, except a drink. I tried a doctor, a few really. They gave me some pills, and don’t ya know it, when you mix those pills with the booze, well, let’s just say if felt like the first time.” 	She looked at Maria again, 
	“You know what happened then?” 
	“What?” 
	“It got worse.” 
	Both women laughed a this. 
	“I ran away with a guy for bit...you know what I liked about him? He partied like I did. And I came home, and I was sorry and there were more promises. And the whole thing started over again.”
	She stopped then, looking vacantly forward, nodding her head ever so slightly. 	“Well? What happened?” 
	“I got tired, that’s what happened. I eventually was so empty that there wasn’t enough vodka or pills to ever fill that void. No matter how hard I tried. I got to the point where I couldn’t go a day, an hour even, without it, yet…I couldn’t imagine continuing on. I ate three bottles of pills one day and washed it down with a half gallon of vodka. Aaron found me in the bathroom when he came from work. He called an ambulance, they pumped my stomach…saved my life. I was on a hospital for a few weeks.” 
	She paused rotating her index finger in a small circle by her temple. 
	“The crazy hospital,” she laughed, “and when I got out, I had to find a new way to live. I met and talked to others who went through what I was going through, and they helped me, taught me to live, to really live. Because what I was doing wasn’t living. You know that magic, I was talking about. I have that now, and you know what, it’s not gone the next day. I had to do was quit fighting myself.” 
	Maria looked looked at the older lady, measuring her, her words. 
	“You make it sound easy.” 
	“Of course, everything always sounds easier than it really is.” She gave a light laugh. 
A12	“You can start by just kicking that to side, and helping me get some food.” Naomi nodded to the bottle. 
	Maria picked it up, looked at it for a moment, and then with a perfect hook shot, there will it over the counter back into the pharmacy, the flying bottle knocking more bottles off of the shelves, all falling to the floor. She felt a tinge of regret as she did it, almost grief, as if she were saying goodbye to her best friend, her lover. And perhaps she was.
Stop Here Unedited after this
The two woman left the pharmacy the main area of the store and began to hunt for food to restock. The whole store smelled like rotten flesh and as they neared the end where the meat was displayed the smell became overpowering. “Naomi?” “Maria?” “Over here”. Maria responded to the familiar voice as the pair turned and headed in the direction of the voice. Bo, Joseph and David had just entered the store, pushing through the glass swinging doors. “Whdjya yet?” David asked. “Nothing yet, we were just looking around.” Naomi said and gave Maria a furtive smile. That knowing look of women who shall a secret. “Damn it smells like death in her”. Bo had wrinkled his nose and pulled his tee shirt up over his mouth and nose. Joe looked at the man, surprised. It was the first unsolicited comment he had heard Bo say in days. “It does, bad David agreed, a sour expression on his face.” Well, we’re here to assist you ladies, we found a boat, and its big, big enough that we can bring along a decent amount off food and stuff. “Que buleno” Maria and Naomi both smiled. There is a couple of request. Joe said. Sarah said to get soap, my dad wants a pack of smokes, of course and the priest says we should get a deck of cards. “We can at least get a few shopping carts full of stuff.”
Fifteen minutes later David, Jo and Bo each pushed a shopping cart loaded with supplies out of the grocery store with the two women following. They pushed the carts to the far end of the grocery’s parking lot and out into the street. There was a blue minivan in the roadway that was blocking the street, having come to rest perpendicular to the double yellow lines, facing the small group onto the side walk that ran the length of a burned our apartment building. The structure still stood, but the brick was black from soot, the fire burning everything ………….. it. There was a recessed doorway off of the sidewalk and in the entryway were the chaired remains of three figures, one larger, two smaller, huddled together in a nightmarish pose, frozen in time. David wanted to throw up. He could feel his stomach knotting and clenching as they all stopped momentarily, looking at the horror before them. It wasn’t the fact that they were dead, nor that they were burnt that made his stomach went to turn inside out. It wasn’t even the knowledge that this, through the ………………. was indistinguishable, was probably a mother and her young. He was becoming accustomed to the death, desensitized a doctor might say. It wasn’t the death so much. I was the flies. It was the flies and their incessant buzzing. It was the way they seemed to defile these departed members of the human race, as if there unholy presence were a course upon the dead. Their way being blaspheming what was, what is and what weight have been. He could not abide the flies. He let go fo the cart he was holding  

A13
and rushed towards the bodies, waving his hands back and forth, screaming for the flies to get away from them, yelling wildly at the air, the flies, still buzzing, flying in small …………….. landing on other patches of burnt flesh completely indifferent to the boy’s flinging about. Naomi walked up behind David, grasping him, pulling him into her embrace. He rested his head on her shoulder and the tears came. He wept. He wept for the mother and her tow children, and he wept for each of those whose final resting place, whose tomb, was a school, an airport, any of a Million houses in thousands of town. He wept for those cremated alive for nothing more than belonging to a race whose ultimate goal is to eradicate itself in a storm of fire. And he wept, because even in death there was no peace. Not from the flies.
“You know how to work this thing?” The priest asked Aaron. Sure do. My father, he was a boater. We grew up on the ……………... We had one just like this. Aaron jumped down of the dock onto the deck of the party boat, its long pontoons dipping and rising as they adjusted to his weight. The pontoon boat tied near the end of the long wooden dock, the last in a hire of four other boast, all similar craft. The longer pontoon boat would easily fit them all, it had a large open duck with a number of cushioned benches along its edges. Aaron ducked the boats fuel level, than turned to the other men. “We’re going to have to find a way to start his without the key.” “How are we going to do that?” The priest was asking. Jack stepped off of the dock, turning around to extedn his hand towards. Ben who took it and stepped down slowly, taking his time with his injured leg. They gathered around the steering wheel locking at the control panel. Are you boys going to be able to get that running. Sarah’s aged voice came from the shore where her and Dinah watched from the bench of a weathered picnic table. “Ayuh” Jack called back confidently over his shoulder. “The key is just a switch, it we take this off we can get to – Hey what was that.” He spun around quickly rubbing the back of his head. “Feels like I just got bit by a giant horsefly”. He turned back towards the instrument panel. There was a plink, the sound of something light staking metal, and all four of the men wheeled around. Something struck Ben in the arm, something small and light, “What was that”. Then another plink as a tiny pebble struck the aluminum awning of the boat and rolled off landing at their feet. They looked in the direction the rock came from and there on the shore was an old man who had just emerged from the foliage by the waters edge. He was holding a wooden walking stick and wore nothing but a white cloth around his waist. His black skin was carved with hard deep lines and his silver hair and beard flowed long and wild creating a vivid contrast with his skin. He bent, leaning on his stick and picked up a pebble, then threw it in there direction the falling short and landing on the deck of the boat. The stared incredulously at him, “Hey Ben began, and the priests Hello” was drowned out by Jack “Where’d you come from?” The man stood there eyeing them, “Where’d you come from?” “We’re from the city, we’ve been travelling out the river road. The man eyed them suspiciously as they began to step up onto the dock.” Move no closer. The men shouted and threw another …………….. out at them, this one larger. “I will not drink they red cop of death.” The men stopped, puzzled.       

A14
Jack turning toward the priest with a quizzed expression. He turned again to face the man. “We’re not going to hurt you.” The old black man stepped back nervously. “I will not drink thy cup of death.” “Mister” it was Dinah, the old man turned to face her and her grandmother and drew back abruptly as if seeing them for the first time. “Mister, we’re not going to hurt you.” The man began to cackle loudly his high pitched laugh piercing the all, as he pounded his wooden stick on the ground. As quick as he began, he stopped and glazed at the girl, his bright eyes boring a hole in her. They cannot hurt me, but …………….. unto you, you who have survived the judgment of the lord, whoah onto you have survived this plaque of fire. “He turned to look at the man, who stood, silent transfixed by his gaze. The sound of rolling shopping carts could be heard on the pavement and the man turned to face the approaching group. They stopped suddenly, frozen by his store, he turned towards the girl again.” And the Lord saeth, All night long she cries ; tears run down her cheeks. Of all her former friends, not one is left to comfort her. Her allies have betrayed her and are all against her now. “He turned back to the men, meeting the priests eyes, the young woman who sang there sufer, and the priest can only groan.” He paused momentarily, letting his eyes linger on the priest. Then he raised them towards the sky, tilting his head back and shooting. Young and old alike lie dead in the streets, young men and women, killed by enemy swords. You slaughtered them without mercy on the day of your anger. You invited my enemies to hold a carnival of terror all around me, and no could escape on that day of your anger. They murdered my children, whom I had raised and loved. He looked back at them again, lowering his voice to a whisper. “Whoah onto you refugees of Armageddon, for a bitterer cup has been prepared for you.” The man aged nimble but quickly spun on his heels and bounded off into the thicket. The group staved motionless after him. The priest began to call after him. “Hey come back”, but Sarah silenced him. “Let him go.” She had a worried look about her as she pulled her granddaughter in close to her. The girls’ eyes were watering, tears beginning to streak down her pink cheeks. She was scared. Something about the man, about his words, about his stuff and his bright, bright eyes unnerved her, unnerved them all.

“Crazy vagrant” Bo broke the silence, his words harsch and demeanoning. “What’s up with the boat?” The spell that had been cast upon them seemed to be wearing off. “We need to hotwire it, we’re working on it.” Jack replied. David parked his shopping cart against the picnic table and walked down the dock. He jumped onto the deck of the boat and went straight for the control panel. He deftly pulled the piece of plastic free that housed the ignition and yanked the wires from its rear metal casing. He twisted two of the wires together and touched the third to them. The engine turned over. He stood upright, adjusted the throttle, then bent to dose the circuit again. A few seconds later the engine was purring and the others looked on in astonishment.
“Dave, dude, how did you do that?” Joe had come and sat next to David who was perched on a bench looking out over the …………….. of the boat. “That was sweet” Aaron captained the boat as they pushed off from the small dock, each person finding a spot on the cushioned fences. David shrugged his shoulders and continued to look out over the water. “Who taught you that?” “I don’t know, I just know, maybe from movies or something.” From where he sat the priest could hear the brief conversation and he thought that he knew exactly where David learned         

A15
that, and it certainly wasn’t from a movie. David had learned that from his father, his father who was now in prison, or had been until just a short time ago, but if David didn’t want to share this with anyone, he didn’t blame him. The topic of his father had always strong the boy when mentioned. “Well, it was pretty cool. Anyway Frosty” David gave a polite smile at the compliment but looked towards the priest and changed the subject. “What did he mean back there?” The man, what was that?” “He was crazy.” Bo answered dismissively. “Perhaps”. The 100 priest seemed to be thinking deeply.” He may be crazy, but what he said was from the bible, from the Old Testament. “Oh, yeah” Joe laughed. I can see him out in the desert, banging his walking stick, shouting at the sky and eating lusts, or bags or whatever it is they ate. “The priest chuckled.” And most people thought all those ancient prophets were crazy, just like the guys on 42nd Street who wave signs saying the end is ……………… How crazy are they now? Dave thought about this. “But what did he really mean.” The priest shrugged. I don’t know. What he said comes from the book of Lamentations. The author cries for his people who wore taken into captivity by the …………….., it’s very sad. “Is that what that Reggae song is about” By the Rivers of Babylon?” The priest nodded……. do you know it? David was nodding his head, staring to smile again. “Well what are you waiting for, let’s hear some music.” Joe said as he got up and handed David his guitar. The country around them was quiet and still and as the group moved slowly down the river, David’s song filled the air and comforted the motley crews.
“We should see something when we come around this bend.” Ben was navigating for their skipper, Aaron, having found a map of the river on the boat. “There should be two small towns up here, one on our left and one on our right which do you want to try first”. Either or we’ll put down at the first dock I guess. They had been travelling on the river for almost a week, stopping where they hoped, they would find signs of life. Every town was like the town before, empty and dead, only the blackened remains of humanity remained. In one larger town there had been the large red lettered banners promising respite for survivors, and like the airport there were the red labeled bottles of water. And the dead. Hundreds of the towns inhabitants gathered on a high school football field, coming to their end on the once carefully manicured field the grass, irreverent and indifferent to this lost humanity, growing up and over the remains of the people. Their voices, their memories, their stories disappearing into the earth for all time. As they sounded the bend, they saw a small wooden dock, jutting out from the lush greenery of the shore. They would see the rooftops of buildings beyond the free lies that ran the water’s edge. Aaron guided the boat up against the wooden dock and Jo and Ben climbed up onto the duck to secure the boat. “Went to help me find some gas for this thing?” Jack looked at the priest then jumped up onto the dock, carrying a gas can they had requisitioned. “Sure thing”. I’m going to take a look around “David said to the others.” 

End of Page
end of A15	
63 rewrite this transition
a half hour later were all ………………… on a large pontoon boot, and pushing off

64
down the river, Aaron at the helm.
“Do you think people out there” Aaron looked inquisitively at the preist.
“There has to be, somewhere. He answered, unsuere.”
“Because we could travel this river halfway across the state….. there are towns along the way….. but eventually we’ll end up in the capital” He paused.
“Another city”
“Well, we can stop in the towns, see if we can find anything…. Anyone rather.”
“And how long do you think we can keep moving.”
“As long as it takes”
And the small group of survivors made their way along the river. Days turning into weeks. They stopped in towns nestled along the river, all of them dead, devoid of all human life. Some they found abandoned, their ghosts having fled this man-made apocalypse; some were still littered with the corpses of the dead.
In one town they found all of its residents, huddled together on its high schools running track, dead for day, each resident clutching a bottle of the red labeled water, smelling of almonds and death. Their hopes of finding others were dwindling with the passing days. They would see signs of life from time to time, but never a living soul. As the days grew shorter and them nights grew cooler, they began to talk of putting down for the winter. The winter were cold and harsch here, and they waved need to prepare themselves and so when the pulled into the dock at the edge of the small town, they thought that this might be a suitable place. There was a large highway that bridge the river beside the town and perhaps someone might chance upon it.
279 / 18, 704    














NOW
65
as he approached the bridge the priest thought that maybe his mind was playing tricks on him. He had an unsettling sense of deja vu, the feeling that he had seen this place before. And when he passed the faoled blue where houses of the industrial complex that lay along the river he realized that his mind was perfectly sound for he had been here before. This was “the place” and the memory chilled him. He had not known, not expected to ever come here again, and the fact that he was here sent shivers through him, as if the ghosts of his past had way layed him finally caught upto him.

The faded yellow suspension bridge stretched across the river, bringing the highway past the town that lay in its shadow. The town where so much had happened so long ago. And now here he was, like some dark periodical sun. He would have liked to pass through as quickly as he was able, but it was nearing dark, and beside, …………….. ghost were long dead or so he thought.

He wound off of the highway just past the bridge, following the exit onto the main through face of small rivertown. It looked the same as it had years before besides the inevitable wear from mother nature, the vegetation encroaching on all sides, siding up to buildings and pashing its way through every crack. He felt, siding in, as if he could feel eyes upon him, watching staring. It unnerved him, his mind bringing to life inanimate objects, marking shadows dance in the fading light.

He felt a fear that he had not felt in ages, a fear so palpible he could taste it. He heard a noise off to his right and he nearly jumped, startled, adrenaline coursing through his veins, senses alert. He pushed his fear back. It was merely his imagination driven by his own remorse, his own tell-tale heart. But it was not his imagination,  there was someone out there, or something. “Hello…. Who’s there” He spoke to the shadows, to the empty spaces 

340 / 19044

66
in the shadows. There was only stillness in response.
He know this town very well, he knew more than a few of the houses very well, he know more than a few of the houses very well also, but instead of choosing one of these he headed to the end of town, picking a house on the last street, one that escaped his memory.

He opened the unlocked wooden front door and entered. Funding himself in a clean dry place, free from mold and animal in habitants, he made himself a bed, placing his bedroll oer the mattress he found in a bedroom. When he went out of start a fire on the front lawn he saw them. Four glowing eyes in the dark, and as his eyes adjusted to the dim light, the shapes of the creatures they belongs too emerged from the shadows.

There in the darkness, across the street, were two small boys. They were ……………… behind in the bushes of a yard across the street. They were scared, but tearless enough to have followed him through the town, hiding in the shadows. He called out of them, but they stood motionless in the dark. He called again and they scampered away in the moonlight. 

The priest prepared a meal for himself, and when he had eaten, he left a bit of food beside his fire before uttering inside. He watched out of the living room window, hidden behind a curtain. The two boys made their way haltingly towards the fire, taking tentative steps, alter and ready for any sign of danger. The priest would see that they were emaciated and raggedly clothed, and dirty, very dirty. He wondered where their parents were and what had become of them. Who were these children that were akin to creatures of the night, shaded of dying world, a world where the innocent haunted the guilty.
In the morning he found all of the food he had left out was eaten. He prepared himself breakfast and set out more food by the fire, this time

334 / 19378 

67

though he seated himself on the front porch of the house and waited.
They were slower in their approach this time, as if the light were …………….. to these beings. When they were by the curb of the street they stopped watching him.
“Go on, I won’t hurt you.” He removed seated and raised his hands.
palms open to signify his peaceful offering.
The younger of the two looked at the older and said something indecipherable. 
The older retorted sharply, shushing the younger. The older crept forward stealthily until he was within reach of the food. His hand shot out and grabbed a handful of jerky, shoving into his mouth greedily, at the same time scampering backward, to safety almost on all fours. His mouth chewed, his eyes locked on the priests for sometime.

At some point the elder decided that the priest was not threat and he spoke to the younger boy, eyes still warily on the priest. The words he spoke seemed to be some garbled mashup of animal sounds and guttural means. As the younger boy crept toward to snatch some food, the priest realized with a sickening fascination that these boys had no language but there …………….. They had lived apart from all humanity their entire short lives and were more …………….. to animals than to their fellow man. As he turned to pack his gear he wondered at the strangeness of this world and the devolution of the human race.

Before he rode out that morning, he left the boys a fair supply of food and an empty blessing. He spurred the horse and fled the town that had plagued his memories for so many years, looking back on the place where he did the first of a thousand deaths.

297 / 19675

68
That night on the road he dreamed. He was on the beach running, pursued by the wolves, those hounds of hell. Their rezoned ……………. glistening with drooling saliva, their lean bodies cutting through the air gaining on him. Up ahead was the girl again, and all of the others to. Sarah and David, Aaron and Naomi, Jack, Ben and Joe, even Bo, with Ruth and the baby, and finally Maria. They were all these up ahead, standing in a line upon the sand, calling him. They all held small plastic bottles of water with a distinct red label, these they held out to him, the bitter liquid beckoning. Dinah was speaking to him but the …………….. played tricks with his mind, the words from her lips were garble, guttural sounds of some animal language …………….. to man. 
And then her words …………….. through the wind. “Save me”, “Save me” just as the first dog reached his heels, tearing him down.
He awake with a start, shivering.
He continued to press on, travelling the dead highway, marking his way to the coast. The summer sun moved across the sky, marking the days. He continued to move, the sickness in his body even growing, the …………….. in his soul …………….. marked by the ever present dreams.
He had been travelling many day since he had launched with the farmer and he knew that the lowlands …………….. he travelled would become a sprawling city eventually, at least the long forgotten remain of one.

It was then that he …………….. he was being followed. Thick second and third growth …………….. had begun to encroach upon the highway, sidling right up to the edges, and in the thicket, here and there he could set glimpses of movement, momentary flashes of his hidden stalker. And here and again he thought he could 

305 / 19980    
69
make out the ……………… reflectiveness of eyes when darkness had descended. He was perhaps a days side form the deserted metropolis where he came upon the burned corpse of a long dead man. A large wooden beam, a two by four of old, was spiked laterally across a tall pine telephone pole. The mans arms were tied, outstretched to the beam, his body hanging lump. The priest rode slowly past, starning. The man had assuredly strangled in that position, the weight of this body marking breathing impossible, unless of course he had been burnt first. In which case…
He shuddered and looked away. 
A little down the road he came to another crucified body, seemingly identical to the first. And then down the road he came to another crucified body, seemingly identical to the first. And then there was another, and another. Until the road was lined with the dead,creting a ……………… of unholy ghosts. The priest began to ride faster, wondering what horrors lay in the city before him.

He made cams in the middle of the roadway that evening, building a fire in the cracked pavement. The forests had given way to a broad industrial area ; the burned out factories and wharehouses visible from the road. Here the earth was so scorched that nothing grew, not even the wild vegetation that had engulfed everything else sense the world had passed on.

The horse brayed, it’s breath forging the chilly nights air. The priest sensed the ……………… at the same time as the house did. He was sitting on his bedroll, sipping whiskey, looking through the flames. A figure appeared through the flames, emerging from the darkness. The man was hooded, wearing a long dark brown rope of a courtly spun material. He stepped toward into the light, easing the hood from his had with long spidery fingers reveling his pale long face, features sharp in the reflected. His hair was oily, wispy to his head.

313 / 20293     
70
a ghostly smile playing on his lips.
“May I?” He motioned to a spot on the pavement opposite the priest, through the flickering fire. His voice was a high pitched whine, the croak of someone elderly. The priest nodded, his hand already upon the cold steel of the rifle, nerves tensed in readiness.

“No need for that….. I come in peace.” The hooded man motioned at the gun, and seated himself cross legged. “May we share your fire?”
“We” The priest turned his head from side to side, looking into the darkness. 
“My brother and I”. His eyes looked upwards,over the priests head. The priest turned towards where the man had looked, and out of the shadows behind him stepped another hooded man, face shrouded with the same brown clock. The man circled around the fire and seated himself between the two men but back a …………. feet in deference to the authority of the other.
“He doesn’t say much”. The second man grinned, frighteningly unreal. There was something wrong… something grotesque about the man, and then he realized what it was… the man had only a stump were his tongue should be. 
The past looked back at the first man, “Who are you”. His words were …………… firm, his right hand still within close range of the weapon.
“We are brothers of the order of Odham”. The man replies, “and who might you be?”
“Just a traveler”…. you have been following me. “It was more a statement of fact than a question, the why being implied.”
“Oh, you can’t be too careful these days. You can meet all forms of strangeness on the road.” The man laughed a high piercing laugh, almost a cackle. The priest’s neck tingled with fear, wariness. He did not like this man he thought. No, not at all. There was something about this man that

310 / 20603    
71

he could not articulate, that unnerved him, keeping his animal instincts on edge. “What is it you want with me.” The priest asked, eyeing both men with suspicion. 
“Oh, nothing at all….. just the warmth of the fire to chase away the terrors of the night.”
We watch our rode closely, but we think you are no threat to us… you being a man of the cloth and all.
The priest was startled, then realized that the men’s observation was simple really. He displayed his holy vocation like the mark of Cain, for all to see.
“If this is your road, are those your telephone poles” He referred to the blackened bodies that were like sores upon the roadway. Lesions festering on the already charred landscape.
The man laughed, that high pitch cackle again.
“Oh no, no, no…. those are from the bandits, the highwaymen from the city. That is why we can’t be too careful. They are too crafty by much and are always setting traps, ready to ensure the unsuspecting soul”. The man had a faraway look for a moment, then brought his focus back to the conversation, looking in the priest eyes.
“We are also men of the cloth. We have a community up ahead. We like to meet strangers on the road before we invite them to our homes.”
“On the morrow, you will sup with us, refresh your mount and rest if you will”
It was almost a command.
“For now we will leave you in peace” The men stood and turned to depart.
“Beware the highwaymen”
The priest felt a chill pass through him as he watched the men lift there hoods and fade into the darkness. He slept restlessly that night, with the fire bright and the rifle upon his lap.

299 / 20, 902   
72
The next morning they came to his camp at dawn. They rode large sturdy mounts of their own, and dismounted to greeted him.
“Good Morning, Father”. The two men lowered these hoods and nodded to the priest. “How do you fare?”
The priest nodded back, touching the brim of his hat in greeting. “I’m fine”
“Will you ride with us?”
“I will” He looked around, the son was just lifting over the horizon, casting a spectrum of colors across an empty barren wasteland of half standing buildings, a jungle of concrete and steel tarnished with the black of death.
“And where in this wasteland you you call home?” He looked back at them.
The man without a tongue could obviously hear just fine, he turned and pointed cast, the way they had come, towards the heart of the dead city.
“Let’s go”. The priest finished packing his gear and mounted his horse. He rode beside the other two men. Ad they progressed the pavement itself gave way to a rubble path, the road itself so destroyed by years of decay and what had befallen the city. The guardrail stopped suddenly as it lifted off of the ground and twisted in on itself ; its steel having melted and recast, looking like some metallic icon to the god of the machines. The priest had not seen such destruction since he had left the city so many years ago; fleeing the church with his flock, those survivors whose souls it was his to protect. 
They rode on, into the city. Here all was rubble. Brick and concrete. Beams and rebar, Mortar and glass. Skyscrapers reduced to dust. Civilization reduced to ashes. The streets were barely visible, a ………………….. of passage ways between and around the fallen structures, but they were following a path, that which the hooden men were familiar and which the

308 / 21,210       
73
Horses followed with little trepidation. Eventually they came to a large concrete structure that resembled a parking garage that had caved in on itself. The priest slowed, allowing the two men to lead the way. They entered a concrete ramp that descended into the belly of the deceased building, following it below the wreckage above, deeper into a subtarrean layer of the parking …………………..

The men dismounted tethering their horses to an piece of rusted ……………… that ………….. from the wall. The priest followed, his curiosity almost over whelming his wariness. The men pointed towards glass door on the far side of the garage and they headed towards it. Through the door were a set of elevators, long since dead, and what appeared to be a ticket window, a sign above it saying no refunds and lost tickets will be charge full fare. There were asset of concrete steps as well that led down even further; with oil lamp handing from the wall to light their way. They descended the steps, reaching a platform where they turned, descending even further and opening up into large concrete hall.
Old fluorescent lights hung from the high ceilings and from them hand more oil lamps casting an ………….. glow over the length of the subway platform. Metal benches lined the closest wall, faded framed posters above advertising the latest movies of a forgotten age. Across from the benches were the tracks ; a pair of wooden steps not native to the subway led down off of the platform into the rails. The priest followed the two men down these steps and into the tunnel, the flickering flames of the lamps casting moving shadows on the smooth carving walls.
“Welcome to our abbey”. The skinny, ghost of a man turned and whispered. The priest followed as they walked the rails, alertly fascinated; he had

309 / 21, 519 
74

not seen a subway in ages and never such a sight as this.
“you live down here”
The man nodded. “We do”
Ahead of them a small light was moving towards them, growing. It was another lamp being carried by another robed figure, headed their way. He was short and plump and his skin was ghostly pale like the others. 
“Good day Father… We’ve been expecting you.”
They stepped onto the small wooden dock, faded and in ………………, and looked around. From where they they stood they could see the backs of a few red brick buildings lining the river to their right, and to their left of the boat ramp was a picnic area spotted with short evergreens. Behind them across the river lay a sprawling array of factories and warehouses sidling up to the rive with massive loading docks and all the trappings of industry. In the distance up the river the factories gave way to a beautiful lowland country of posture, and meadow ; farms and woodlands traversing the countryside with to ominous mountains in the distance.
Aaron tossed Jack a rope from the boat who secured it to the dock. Aaron, jumped from the boat to join the others, hoping as they were that there would be less death here than the last place. Aaron went shirtless, wearing a white bandana and sunglasses. He had thinned out considerably living on the river, and his tanned lean body reflected this new way of life. He enjoyed it really ; he had never know the excitement or ……………… that he found with his fellows now, bound together as they were, survivors of the great ……………… that was humanit. He had always led a sedentary lifestyle, a life of paperwork and desks, budge and accounts ; the 

75

mind numbing tedium of corporate world. This new life though, it invigorated him, it made him feel alive inside, as it some part of him, long dead had reawakened. He felt like a teenager again ; and it wasn’t just him. He knew that Naomi was changing too ; she had opened up, becoming friends with the others, forging a motherly bond with the boy ; and there relationship, once stale and dead, new again.

He looked over at this wife standing on the dock, she was beautiful. Tanned, and free of the makeup she used to hide behind, she appeared pure and radiant. He felt a sudden stir inside him, as she turned and caught his gaze. He thought maybe he was falling in love all over again and he smiled at the though and at her.

They made there way up the short boat ramp, Joseph, Ben and David, their scouts, in the lead. The ramp intersected a street lined with assorted stores and buildings, the heart of a small river tow ; the home of factory workers and farmers, teachers and carpenters, housewives and barge operators. Except there was no one left. It was a ghost town, completely abandoned, no sign of life remaining.

“We should check the football field.” Sarah looked at the younger men,  who took her suggestion and went ahead, splitting up, the there each choosing a different street to reach. The football field was where they had been finding the towns people, if they could be found at all and if there was a town even left. It was the same in most places that remained inhabitable, the dead, asleep in great masses, huddled together, choosing a high school football field to spend their last few moments. The places that were uninhabitable, their dead were not as neatly arranged ; their dead were

76

the burnt ones and their bodies did not discriminate resting places. They did not even stop anymore when they passed place such as these ; tired of stepping over the dead were they.
Ben was the first to return.
“No one” , “It’s empty”
“Empty?” “Naomi asked, to be sure.”
“Completely” There were smiles amongst the group, as Joseph and David rejoined them.
“I take it we’re good” He asked his brother.
“Yes sir”
“Are we really going to live here” Dinah’s question echoed the spoken thoughts of the others.
“For a time” Sarah answered, reassured them all, “at least for the winter”
“Cool”, let’s go pick a house” She ran off smiling, laughing excitedly. She had grown so much in such a short time, donning the maturity of adulthood out of necessity and the cruel education of reality. Sarah smiled, watching the girl run off ; thinking how very much like her mother she looked and how she was too fine by much for this cold world.
They began to separate into small groups to canvas the town ; the priest and Sarah heading down the main street together. To their right they passed a small diner, once called Margaret’s, followed by a row of offices and shops with apartments above.
“An antique shop” Sarah pointed ahead. Before my husband died we would take long Sunday drives out into the country and every country town had an antique ship. It was always my favorite part of every drive.

77

And then we would always stop for dinner in some remote restaurant where the waitress and the cook and the cashier all the same person.
“I loved those days.”
The priest smiled with her. “We used to do the Sunday drive too. We would go to church, my mom always hurrying us all along. Your shirts wrinkled, or you can’t wear those shoes to church.” And we, my brothers, and I would cram in the back of the car and off we would go usually late. And after church we would drive off into the country.
He laughed church would drive off into the country.
He laughed in reminiscence. “It was always so boring. I would spend the whole time reading in the back of the station wagon.”
They walked on in silence. A small grocery store lay across the street from them with a gas station beyond that signifying the edge of the town. Here they followed a side street down in search of better things ahead.
Jack and Bo strolled down the sidestreet that ran beside the small grocery. Jack though this town, this place reminded him so much of the place where he had grown up. It probably was not bigger, but the size was not what did it really, it was the feel of the town. It was the aura of the working class people that had lived there, the aura that still lingered telling the stories of its former residents, the storied of any and all from similar towns. The stories of men who brought fire from the earth, who forged it into steel and who build the backbone of a nation. Men like Jack and his father before him, and if the world had not lost its sanity, his sons after him, carrying on the rich tradition of labor, proud and strong ; were the strength of the people was determined by the intensity of the fire.

78

Jack loved the town already : it was perfect. There was an alley behind the grocery store, separating it from a row of simple country houses.
“Let’s find a place to bunk up” He looked over at Bo and slapped him on the back in a friendly gesture. He felt bad for Bo, of all the things that had happened, the woman and the baby had hit them all the hardest, and he coved only imagine the man’s anguish. He lost his own wife years back, but it was a slow protracted fight with cancer that had taken her, the knowledge of the end known far in advance, and it still paired him to think about. EACH memory his wife, sweet yet a fresh sadness.
Bo had changed ; he hadn’t known the man prior, but he could see the change. The anger that lingered below the surface, even when all was well, Jack had know men like that before ; men who had come back from the war overseas, changed Dark. He remembered a man his neighbor, who had come back. The man would go up to his attic and play with a train set he had as a boy, sometimes for hours at a time. The man’s mother would beg Jack to go talk to him, but the man was beyond talking too…. brought past the edge of sanity by his own pain, inconsolable and broading, a deep hostility towards the world and all of it’s inhabitants infecting his soul. He thought of that man then and this man now sent of shiver of fear through him.

But Bo smiled nonchalantly. “Alright old man”… lets find us a place. Maria was walking with Naomi and Aaron, they were house shopping as well. The sidestreet they picked up explore contained small professional office building, bearing a sign with many names each name

79

having a plethora of letters after it.
“Maybe I could get a job here”. Aaron and his wife were walking arm in arm joking back and forth, like teenage lovers on a warm summer night. They were smiling at each other, walking close, leaning in, there jokes secret and knowing. Aaron reached and spun Naomi around with his free had, enfolding her in his embrace, kissing her deeply.
Maria laughed at their youthful exuberance, “Get a room”.
They stopped, turning toward her smiling.
“I do think that’s a splendid idea” Aaron turned back to his wife, now more beautiful than ever. Her look was all the conformation he needed, and they rushed off in the direction of a short, squat apartment building up the street. “We’ll catch up” Naomi shouted over her shoulder.

Sarah and the priest were walking the alley behind the grocery, looking into the backyards of the houses on the block. They could see Bo and Jack ahead of them on the street, walking towards the row of houses whose yards they were passing.
“You like her, don’t you” Sarah looked at him, a sly smile played upon her lips. He stopped unexpectantly. A Ben gripped him, the feat that he had been found out, she had once again looked into his heart and found his secrets, reading him like a book. “Oh Relax, your secrets safe with me.”
“Thank You”
“You know, she likes you too”
He looked at the older woman in dismay. Of course he liked Maria, but he did not think it was so obvious, and the thought that the others.

80

would find out horrified him. The thought of its own scared him, so adept was he at suppressing his own inclinations, his own desires. And the knowledge that she returned his desire was paralyzing, that which is forbidden becoming possible. The abstract desire merely a thought passing, ……………… but ultimately venial harmless. Unobtainable, but here the lost becoming something more, something more real. He was silent, she was obviously going some where with this.
“Do you remember when we first met”
“Yeah” He did, clear as day
“Do you remember me asking you what you wanted to do before you became a priest, and you became all flustered?”
“Yeah”
“Well, I’ve another one for you. What do you want to when your done being a priest.”
……………… once again her words struck him, as it she could read his heart. As if his waning faith were obvious to all. You never stop being a priest.
“Are you being a priest now?”
“Yeah”
“Well, then in that case maybe priests could relax a little now that things have changed?”

81

The corner house behind the grocery store had a small open lawn and a neat red brick porch that Dinah climbed gingerly, searching for the perfect place. She had already explored a few so far, out nothing struck her. She opened the heavy wooden front door and climbed a wooden staircase, already having figured out that is was the bedrooms that would make up her mind. At the top of this particular stairway in this particular house, she found what she was looking for. The room of a young girl, close in age to her, brightly lit, complete with pink and white bedding and thick lavender carpets. She looked out of a wide windows and could see the river and bridge in the distance. Smiling she jumped, no dove into the bed, allowing herself to …………….. into the plush bedding. It was perfect.

She jumped up and ran downstairs stopping only to make sure there were two other bedrooms, one for Sarah and one for Mari. Outside she found the others, and grabbing her grandmother and Maria, beckoned them to see their new home.

Jack and Bo and the priest chose the house directly behind the ladies, along the alley, there backyards bordering each other, Naomi and Aaron moved in next to Sarah and the girls; and David, enamored by the young men, banked up with Ben and Joe in the house next to the older men. The small group, in this way, annexed a block for themselves and began to make themselves feel at home.

That evening they met on the main street in the dines and shared a meal together, happy to rest from their travels on the river. Jack retrieved a case of beer from the beer distributor in town and David brought out his guitar. They built a fire in the street and warmed


82
each other with their company.

The priest eventually rose to retire for the evening and walked along the sidestreets, midly intoxicated, lost in his own thoughts. Maria came to him, then, joining him on his walk, watching with him the birth of Orion above. He coved feel her presence then, hot, tingling. His insider on fire with a forbidden desire.

And in some instant temptation ceased to be temptation, rather it became the natural fulfillment of what was to be. Lust ceased to be lost, and became love. And when there two bodies met, it was no longer sin, but the necessary union of two shipwrecked souls washed upon the shoals of life.

His rows seemed unbroken, rather traded for other, richer vows, as they become one, in body and soul.

And the others accepted this, this new order, this new man in union with this women. Accepted it like all else was necessarily accepted in this new world, accepted, for lacking acceptance, ones sanity would surely be broken on the rocks of a stormy shore.

And there was one, did not, coved not accept this world as it was. His anger grew inside of hi, at the world, at God for betraying him and his wife for leaving him. And his heart was filled with all those baser emotions that accompany such a …………………… of the soul. A thousand form of fear, ………………. , and jealousy and envy. Envious of the others, their peace and contentment where he still struggled with the ghosts of the dead. Envious of their light hear redness, their laugher, and especially their love. The love,  ………………. they all shared, but also

83

especially that budding love of man of woman, so apparent between Naomi and Aaron, and now between Maria and Priest. There is being despised the most, her beauty wasted on his a man of the cloth while, he, ever faithful was alone and lost. His envy and jealously grew, hating the priest, Maria, heart full of lust yet turning cold. Cold as the winter that now came upon them.
And when the others warmed themselves by hearth ……………….. fire, with warm drink and warm company ; he shut himself off from the light of that love, fleeing gave way to spring to the new life that is held. The travelers who had wandered in search of others, thought that perhaps others should come to them. They had found a place of comfort, a home, where they began to put down roots, so that new life could begin.
It was early spring, the weather having just broke, the previous month having been ………………. out like lamb. Jack and the priest were crouched about a small red gas lawn ………….. , the two men tinkering with the machine, attempting to get it started. The priest adjusted the choke and ……………. the engine again. Jack reached down, grabbling the starting cord, placed his foot on a wheel to steady the machine, and pulled the cord sharply.
The engine roared to life, a healthy high idle for a moment before it began to sputter. The priest opened the choke the rest of the way and the engine parried healthily.”
“Alright partner” Jack grinned at the priest. “You wanna give it a go first.”
The priest took hold of the handle and pushed the ……………….. through the high grass going to the edge of the yard and beginning clean meat rows

84

the smell of the fresh cut grass, sharp and fresh, tingling their nose. It was the smell of newness of regeneration of hope.
They started to gather an audience.
“Hey I want to try” It was David, smiling ear to ear. He and Dinah had rode up the alley on their requisitioned bicycles and hopped off, leaning them against the block wall of grocery, across the was and hustling into the yard. The priest passed of the ………………. to him and he practically ran with it, the ……………. chute blowing grass wildly ; Dinah laughing as she dodged the flying grass clippings her golden blond hair flying as she bounce to and pro.

She was growing, taking her leave of childhood and entering ………………… , spurred on by tragedy, yet her demeanor, her personality over bright. She was happy here, in this town, happy with these people, her new family. She loved them, David her ………………. Brother, petulant yet eternally kind, a boy with the right of manhood cast upon his noble soul, …………….. it with equinaminity and an assumed ease. And Ben happy go lucky Ben, and his elder Joseph, always staling David’s attention, but including her where they could. She loved spending time with Maria, ‘hanging out’, the woman taking her under his wing, enfolding her in the embrace of sisterhood. They would dress up together, and put on makeup and walk and talk sipping sodas and passing time, the woman treating her more like a young women and less like a child.

Maria was there now, on the parching clapping and boohooing, ………… the man on the landscaping symbolic of their claim to the town, the staking out of their ……………, not animalistic ally, but with the claim of a …………………….. whose improvement of the land is his little and dead.

85

The screen door behind Maria, and Naomi stepped out onto the porch carrying a picker of cold lemonade and a condensation dripping down the outside of the plastic container, the ice clinking against its sides, the familiar sound drowned out by the mover. She set the cups down a filled them, handing one to Maria and shouting “Lemonade” at the men. Jack and the priest stopped up onto the porch, each taking a glass of the cool beverage, David still zipping around the yard, playing doing wheely’s with the lawn mover.
“Careful now” Naomi shouted over the din of the engine, ever concerned with the safety of David and Dinah, but smiling nonetheless.

“That’s good” Jack complimented Naomi, nodding to her and liftig his glass after taking a long draught. The drained the glass, then cocked his head to the side, inquisitively, listening. “Do you hear that?”
The priest fun owed his brows, unsure of what the man was referring to. “Hear what”
Jack began to smile. “Well either our lawn mover is made by the ……………….. Davidson motorcycle company, or we got ourselves a motorcycle.”
“Hey, shut that off for a sec.” he shouted down at David
“What” David still smiling, the words all but drowned out by the rumbling engine. Jack pulled the blade of his hand across his throat in the universal gesture for ‘cut’. David hatled, reached down and flicked the kill switch, and the sound of the motor ……………. off us it …………….. to a half.

But the heavy engine sound was not gone, something rumbled in the background, and net the quiet drone of the generator that was always a persistent ham. No, this was ………… and it was coming from

86

the mainstreet, it was the unmistakable of a chopper, that traditional American motorcycle that Jack loved. “That’s my boys”
“Let’s go see” David called over to those on the porch, before mounting his bike and racing of in search of Joe and Ben, who had obviously scored bit, finding themselves a motorcycle. He pulled up to the intersection of the main street, Dinah on his tail, Jack practically running in excitement, the others making their way, slower, yet still caught in the excitement of the moment.
The sound was coming from the left, towards the highway, and though they wouldn’t see the machine from which the noise came, they could see Joe and Ben, making there through a gap between the small dinner and the low brick office building adjacent to it, carrying fishing poles and a tackle box. The two young men looking to their right, as carious as the rest of them.

The sound grew closer, louder. The rider now visible coming through the underpass of the highway, the tunnel amplifying the noise tenfold then …………….. again as he approached up the main street.

The big man rode helmetless his dirty hair, long and waving in the wind. His handsome face smiling, eyes hidden behind dark sunglasses. He pulled up to the small group, slowing to a stop, killed the engine and engaged the kickstand. He effortlessly stepped off of the huge bike, and dusted the road of his black leather jacket. He looked from one resident to another, eyes searching, mouth set in a grin.
“Howdy folks, how’re ya’ll doin on this fine morning.”
They stared, seeing his massive frame, hearing his southern drawl, but not believing their eyes He was the first human being they had seen in so long, and they looked at him as if they had forgotten what another    

87

person looked like.

“Do I ……………….. stick in my teeth?” He said my like ……………….. , with a twang, “cause the way ya’ll starin………….” He trailed of, his smile widening. 
“Hi” Dinah broke the silence, walking up to him and jutting out her arm in greeting. “I’m Dinah”
He took her little hand and shoot it, gently.
“Will howdy do Dinah? I’m Claypool, but people just call me Clay.” He paused. “But that was when there was people.” He paused again, continuing, and here you, we are again, people that is. And boy ain’t I glad to see some folks other than myself.”
You happen to have something to drink, my mouth be dry as a whitch’s tit from the road. “He looked at Dinah, the women.” Pardon my language na’ams.
Naomi stepped toward, offering the glass of lemonade she was still holding, having carried from the porch. “Lemonide?” She asked haltingly.
Clay took the small cup is his large hands and drank greedily.
“Mmm.. Thanks Ma’am” he said, “say whered you get the ice”
“We’ve got ourselves a refrigerator hooked up to a generator” Joe replied monitoring vaguely in the direction of the engine’s low …………….. in the distance. “I’m ………………..”
He also stepped forward and greeted the man, the other following suit, Bo, Aaron and Sarah joining them, having heard the commotion.
“So where are you coming from?” David asked politely, but cooly ; his words were cordial but his tone was more distant, less inviting. He was the only me of the group save Sarah who displayed any modicum of reserve, the order women merely remaining silent in observation.

88

“Well ………………..……………….. all over damn dear, just ……………….. the road, ……………….. if it’s the same everywhere. I was holed up here and there when the roads wore bad but….. He trailed off, thinking.” “I started east of here, past the city” “and?” David asked, donning the ……………….. of manhood, of leadership.
“Hmm?”
“Is it? the same everywhere”
Clay just nodded, affirming the news that they already knew in their hearts.
They invited the big max to have lurch with them, so they all headed to the ……………….. , seating themselves at a long wooden table. It had become there gathering place ; its ability to seat them all drawing them together for communal meals. The large glass window stretched the entire face of ……………….. allowing ample light to enter the small place. Naomi had gone to her house with Dinah and was just coming back with a two leaves of bad and ……………….. shank on a platter, which she set on the table and began slicing the bread and meat, making everyone sandwiches. Dinah and brought the pitcher of iced tea, pouring glass cups and passing them out, and listening to the man talk of the places he had been, excitedly handing on every word the mans. Towards the end of the meal, David finally asked the question that was on all of their minds. “So where re you heading in now?”
The hidden implication of the question being that the man would be morning on. David was not discourteous in the least, never the less a tension cut through the room as the question hung in the air. The question that stated in no uncertain terms that he, Clay, must be moving on, that

89

there was no room for him there and that, though welcome for the moment, his presence was unwanted.

Naomi stared at David in surprise, the priest shooting him a glance as well. Davids meaning was clear as day, but the man gull awed.
“Well, son I’ll be moving on right soon. I was stopping just to fill up my tank and my belly ; I won’t be impositioning myself on you nice folks.” His smile was disarming, and more than one of the others wondered about David’s coldness “but I thank you for the lord and for the company.”
“You don’t have to be in a hurry to go” Jack added hastily albeit emptily, the boys words having had their effect.
“Well, I’d like to cover some ground before night full anyways.”
“We could give you some food and gas at least.”
“I’d like that ; why some bread would be wonderful ; I have tasted something like that in ages.” His smile truly was disarming, warm and wide.
“Fresh backed” Aaron and motioning to his wife with obvious pride. Clay followed Aarons gesture with his eyes, looking at Naomi, complimenting her baking and for just a second, for on passing moment something in Clays eyes frightened him, chills coursing down his spine. And just as quickly it was gone ; he shook the felling off and stood to help replenish the man’s gas while his wife went to pack him some food.

When the big man rumbled out of town on his motorcycle a short time later, the small bank of survivors were saddened that their

90

…………………….. with ………… was so …………. A ……………….. settled over them, yet there was relief as well, felt by none more than the bay, who knew, knew for a certainty, that something was not right.
“Race you to the end” Dinah cried gleefully, looking over the shoulder at David. She was already a few feet behind him near the beginning of the bridge, and he gave her another few second head start before he pedaling off after her, gathering speed and than passing her as she giggled and stood on her pedals to catch up. They raced along the highway as it arced over the wide river, at the bridge’s end they exited off to the right towards a sprawling away of warehouses set alongside railroad tracks that ran the length of the river. Further along pas the great blue metal warehouses was a huge industrial loading dock whose chain and hoist would load large containers onto and off of barges and small cargo ships ; material destined for the warehouses or the factory beyond the dock whose vast metal towers, smoke stacks and cat walks appeared to be some futuristic giants steel bound playground.

Dinah and David had no particular destination in mind, they were merely exploring, playing, the world seemingly wide open to their inquisitiveness, there only boundaries those of their own making. The exit from the highway turned into a small road that ran the length of the industrial complex, with smaller drives that versed off in and around the long blue buildings, and circled around to the riverside where their massive bay doors lay.

They were ………………. the length of the first building, its shiny blue
91

shut ………………. reflecting the midday sun, when they heard the noise. It was the same ………………. rumbling that the stranger had brought to the town with him. It was the sound of a motorcycle, loud and angry. David pulled up short, screeching to a stop, fear rippling through him. “Dinah” David called after her shouting in a hushed voice. She turned back to David, her smile fading when saw his face. She braked her bicycle and , turning a tight circle, pulled up beside him. She had heard the sound as well, but it was the warming in David’s voice that quickened her heart, putting her on edge. 
“What is David” she whispered, naked fear in her voice.
“It’s somebody around the otherside”. He stepped off of his bike and leaned it against the rear of warehouse ; Dinah dismounting and parking hers as well. David crept toward, rounding the corner of the building. The engine was louder now then died, and men’s voices could now be heard where the motor’s thunder had once been. David crept toward, the voices were unintelligible, coming from the front face of the building by the warehouse doors. But he thought he recognized one voice, if was that Southern twang that was unmistakable. It was the stranger Clay, and there were others, rough dangerous voices. David had to get closer. He needed to hear what they were saying.
“Dinah, go back.”
“David, let’s go David.” She begged him to return with her, to escape this danger. “Please David come with me.”
“Go now Dinah, I’ll be right behind you. Ride back to the others. I’ll be right there.” His voice commanded her, leaving no room for argument. She turned and fled, tears welling in her eyes, her fear naked and real.

92

David turned back toward the river again towards the corner of the building. As he crept slowly the voices come in waves. He heard bits and pieces of conversation, clips of phrases, and a woman’s voice.
He peered around the corner cautiously. The great bay door of the warehouse was opne and the voices came from inside. A giant green dumpster lay adjacent to the open door ; David darted towards it, putting it between him and the people inside. Couched behind the dumpster, he looked out around its edge and coved see them.
Clay, the big stranger spoke animatedly, waving his arms and pointing towards the town that lay directly across the river.
“There are only four men, I’m sure it. And one of them old, and one of them is a god dam priest. Oh and a teenager too.”
“Your positive, there aint gonna be a few more popping with the woodwork. You know I don’t go in for surprise.”  
“No surprise just what we need.”
“How are the women again.” A tall skinny man asked, dressed in cowboy boats laded the blue jeans and a collared shirt with one of those string that wanna be cowboys always wear.
“I told you Benny, the one little foreign chicky is smoking hot. The girs a lit young but I’m sure you won’t mind. There is a middle age one. She looks good still, but she sure as shit aint pushin out no more babies.”
“Wasn’t there one more”
“There is the old bitch, but she’s older in dirt.”
“I’d still throw her one”. A third, short stock man said, laughing, making a dry humping motion with his hole body, thrusting

94
his torso forward in a display of raucous perversion. The woman contorted her black and blue face, blanching at the display of indecency, but the others laughed loudly. There were eight of them, seven mena and the one woman.

	David pulled away from the edge of the dumpster, leaning back against its far side, a sickness in his gut rising, the taste of bile searing the back of his throat. He had to get back to warn the others, he had to get back now.

	“Hey don’t piss right here”. The one who seemed to be in change shouted at another.

	“Why the hell not,” It was the one they called Benny.

	“because we’re camped in her, you idiot nobody wants to smell your piss.”  David could her the sound of a dull smack and an ow and then footsteps faded away toward the rear of the wharehouse followed by the bang as a metal man door swung closed.

	The man they called Benny stepped out of the small steel door into the bright sunlight, lettering the heavy door swing closed behind him. 
He glanced his pale blue eyes at the sun, commented on the heat in a low wheezy voice, and began to unzip his jeans so as to finish what was so rudely interrupted by that son of a bitch Malcolm.

	He was urinating on the black pavement, the warm liquid running backwards towards him so that he had to step out of the way of the small tendrils of piss that attacked his shiny leather boots. He was doing what looked to be some lurid jig, still pissing and dancing to avoid stepping in his own waste when he saw the two bicycles parked alongside the wall beside him. He stopped, brow furrowed mouth agape, the piss finally reaching its target, flooding on and around his boots. But his attention was fixed on the girl, the girl who was half hid behind a row of fifty five gallon drums that lined the wall a few feet beyond the parked bicycles. He stared, a lecherous smile crossing his face, his sharp teeth almost glistened in the bright sun. 
	
	“What are you doing little girl.”  His voice was sing song, a sweet whisper marching to the cadence of an evil design. She said nothing, only stared wildy in fear, and it was this fright that excited him, that sparked the mad heat in his loins. He looked down at himself, still naked to the world, hardening. He looked at her and laughed. 

	“Boy, aren’t you a purty little thing.”  He stepped forward and grabbed her by the hair, covering her mouth with his other sinewy hand, her muffled screams dying when they came. He certainly didn’t want the others to interrupt his fun, they were forever spoiling his fun, interrupting him, telling him what to do and how to be Goddamn it there was no law no more, the only laws the law of survival, and damn it, he was a survivor. And unlucky for her, he thought, this girl wasn’t. He grin a lecherous grin at his own humor and pulled the girl close to his nakedness.

	David rushed back the way he came, rounding the corner of the building. He froze, his feet sliding over little pebbles that kicked out before him. The man was pressing Dinah up against the hot sheet metal wall, her body struggling as he ineptly pawed at her clothes, simultaneously trying to keep her silent and hold her still. David’s heart was in his throat,  this paralysis held for an instant and then he moved, reacting without hesitation, shooting toward towards the man and his prey. He darted toward the bend, scooped and hefted a chunk of cracked asphalt, no bigger than his fist. He charged towards the man, raising the rock. The man turned towards him  in time to see the stone crash into his face with a sickening crunch. David lithely dodged to the left, circling back and grabbing a jagged piece of pavement in both hands. The man stumbled backward, blood streaking his face, filling his mouth. David rushed toward him again, bringing one than the other of the rocks down on the top of the bent over man's skull. Dinah edged away from the fight, cowering, tears wet upon her cheeks. David backed up keeping his eyes on the man who was on his hands and knees moving his head side to side, barely conscious. David had more of the rocks in his hands now and the mans face pleaded, begged for mercy and when he tried to form words, blood welled up in his mouth, gurgling, his breath spraying droplets of blood onto he pavement.
96
	David stooped toward again and brought the next chunk of death onto the man's head, dropping him to the ground and then with both hands David brought the fifth stone down hard, so hand it stayed in the place on the mans head that it had caved in, embedded in the spongy red flesh. He was dead. 

	David stood, wiped his the blood on hands, his pants and looked towards Dinah. She was crying. He grabbed her hand and pulled her towards the bicycles. 

	“Dinah, were going to race back home, okay?”  Her eyes were vacant, for away. He shook her gently, until she focused in on him. Finally seeing him. “Dinah, we’re going to race home okay, Let’s go.”

	She wordlessly walked to her bike, pulled it off of the wall and mounted it, riding, David behind her, racing across the bridge. 

___________________________

Sarah kneaded her hands in the rich earth, loosening the soil, preparing it for seed. She was kneeling in the grass at its’ edge bent over the narrow strip of dirt that bordered the front porch of the women’s house. The ………………. earth smelt wonderful to her,  ………………. and rich. She had not gardened in many years, and she had forgotten how invigorating it was to bury seeds in the ground and watch them spring from the earth with the vigor of new life, ………………. watched her, crouching beside her, learning the art of gardening, him being the one who had found her little packets of seeds in the small dollar store at the edge of town. 
He heard something in the distant, he cocked his head listening. “Do you hear that”
“What’s that.” She was lost in her work ; she had almost forgotten that he was there beside her. “That noise”. She stopped what she was doing and listened. “It’s an engine. I think.” I don’t know, hard to tell. He added, Sarah just shrugging her shoulders. “Probably the boys”. It was hard to pick out over the ever constant drone of the generator, but she thought maybe he was right; the boys were always up to something, bringing some dead machinery to life or discovering some absent owner’s toys. She was smiling at the thought when she heard Davids shouts. Her smile faded instantly, hearing the warning in them. She stood quickly, for someone her ………………. , and caught ………………. eye. A look of fear passed between them and they ………………. off towards the main street, Aaron running, Sarah behind moving as fast as her age would       

98
allow. Something was wrong. Dinah was siding ahead, crying so hard it was hard to imagine she could see to ride. She rode right passed Aaron stopping just a few feet shy of Sarah and, dropping the bike, nearly leapt into her grandmothers arms. Dinah was hysterical, Sarah held the girl, letting her cry, looking towards David who had screeched to a halt by Aaron.
“There’s men, over the bridge, they …… they hurt Dinah, they’ll come for us.” His words came fast and he paused to catch his breath and to gather his thoughts. “I think I killed one.” His heart was still beating like a drum, a pounding so loud he could hear nothing but it, tasting the blood rushing through his body. Aaron looked over at Sarah, his face was hard, his look cold and stony. “We need everyone together, now” Sarah spoke, it was not a command, merely a necessity. Aaron responded without hesitation. “David, Jack and then, I think they went down to the hardware store.” David sped off down the street looking for the blue pickup truck that Joe and Ben had requisitioned, while Aaron accompanies Sarah and Dinah back to their block. Leaving them on the porch, to find his wife and the others.

We need to go over there and get every lost one of them. Jack was emphatic, “especially that son of a bitch Clay.” We let him into our home. “There were nods of agreement. Every face stern, seting grim determination. Joe and Ben stood at the base of the porch’s steps looking toward the street, each holding a shotgun they had claimed so long ago, before their boat had brought them to this place. David wore the 45 revolver in an old leather hoister about his waist, he had become quite adept at its use under the tutelage of Joe and Ben. He put his hand to it now letting his fingers brush the cold metal of the gun, the feel of the steel reassuring, its power finally manifest under extreme duress.
“Kill them all”. Heads turned towards David. “What’s that David”. The priest was asking. David had whispered his wish, his command. “I said, kill them all.” The priest looked to Jack, whose expression remained constant. David went on. “They will be coming anyway. I heard them. They were going to before I killed the one, now they will for sure.” He looked the others, Sarah holding Dinah, Maria and Naomi beside them, Bo and the priest, Jack and his boys. The silence thick, the tension, so thick it could be cut with a knife. The fear palpable. Adrenaline pumping through every fiber of every being on the porch. Bodies preparing for flight or tofight.

“We could hide until they pass” Naomi suggested, hopefully, yet knowing that would not be the case, that they would now pass through. They were there for a reason and they would not leave until the got what they wanted, or they were dead. And in that moment every members of their small bank of survivors knew that this unspoken truth was the only reality, that they would have to fight, or they would die. There would be no, respite for them, for if they fled they would be hunted, they having the rarest of resources… women. The knowledge of this passed between 

100
them as well as the knowledge of what would happen should they fail to protect their own. And it was David who finally settled the matter as to what was to be done, the conversation having already taken to much of the precious time that was short and getting shorter still.

“We wait for them on the bridge. Me, Jo, Ben, Jack, Aaron and Bo. Sarah, Naomi and Maria need to hide.” David looked at the priest. “We will get some more guns from the police station ; then you take them and hide” “The school?” Too far, they could be here any minute. “He thought for a minutes.” The house right past cars, in the basement. He didn’t wait for an answer, he didn’t wait to see if the group deferred to his judgment, to see if, in this moment of crisis they would follow him. He didn’t care ; he would face those others them alone if need be ; he would make his stand and he would extract from them revenge soaked in blood.

David the man stepped off of the porch, the men following
“This is madness”. Bo thought pure madness. They were all about to follow this arrangement kid to their own destruction. This boy hell bent on revenge would get them all killed. Hell, nothing even happened to the girl anyway, she was just scared. He did give the kid that, he had gust, saving her and all like he did. But that was in the moment. What they should do now…… well that was different. They didn’t have to go marching off to war, for some little bitchs’ honor. A kid, a priest, and old man…. madness. Sure, they had hunted plenty in the winter, they all could shoot but to face men intent on, hurting them? No way. He wasn’t going to die for them, these people that had shunned him since the beginning. They had always acted as if they were so much better than him. He could see it in their eyes, their disapproval of him, their disdain, their all out loathing. Oh he could see it alright, and he had hated them for it and now they wanted him to die for them. He laughed silently, who were these strangers anyway…… some pompous old lady who fancied herself their matriarch, the kid, that goddamn teenager, who like all teenagers thinks he’s some damn king or something, and the best, the priest who’s banging a wetback who the hell did they think they were anyway to just assume that he was going to go along with there little plan. Their little showdown at the OK fucking Corral.
Bo’s jaw tensed, his face contorted, sneering. He was following behind the other men, marking their way to the police station, where there are guns. He stepped through the door to find Jack shoving a pump action shotgun towards him and a box of shells. He took them and backed out of the small red, blick building. They’re crazy he thought “Crazy”.

It seemed as if everything was in slow motion, yet happening so very quickly. They had just gotten to the police station and they were off again hopping in the bed of the blue pickup that Joe had started and pulled up front.  

102
Jack handed a ……………… to his son through the driver’s side window to replace the one they had left the priest. Jack jumped in the bed with the others and gave the side of the truck a smack signaling Joe to drive. They pulled up onto the bridge less than a minutes later, angling the truck across both lanes creating a barrier between them and their would be attackers. Joe killed the trucks engine and leapt out, positioning himself behind the truck, the other men jumping out and joining him.

“We need to spread out and stay out of sight until they’re close, real close.” David, no sooner than he had spoken, darted forward and crouched behind the back of an abandoned car that was left parked twenty feet on ahead the bridge. David turned to see the progress of the others ; Ben taking his position behind the truck with Joe, Bo backing up looking for a place to hide on the exit ramp and Jack rushing up to meet him behind the car. Jack and David, sank down, searing themselves with their backs to the bumpers, heads raised alert, guns at the ready. They waited. AARON? Where are you.

The priest carried the double barrel shotgun the Joe had handed him. He had been hunting with the others, numerous times during the winter, but this was different. To wield a weapon against another man; he did not think he was up to the task. When David had suggested, no commanded, him to go with the women, to guard them, he acquiesced without thinking. The ideas of self-defense comforted him more than the idea of attack, though logically he knew ………….. this attack was self-defense. The only opportunity they would have to defend their lives, their homes, their new life. But the journey from the mind to the heart is often the longest ; that self-evident truth so apparent to the mind, so reasonable, still left his heart in a myriad of conflicting emotions, self-doubt foremost among these. And with this self-doubt he followed Sarath and Dinah, Naomi and Maria, ushering down the street towards the unoccupied corner house. The priest was families with its basement already ; it had taken all of Jack, Bo, Aaron and himself to carry an old cast iron wood burning stove from its basement in the fall. He remembered clearly the struggle as they carried it up its steps, its bulk and heaviness resisting their unified will, their celebration when they had finally conquered it.

They hurriedly climbed the steps of the large Victorian house, pale blue with white trim, beautiful in anytime period. The hardwood floors creaked under their footsteps, the only noise they heard, as they entered and headed towards the basement. They had to duck their heads as they descended the rickety wooden steps, finding themselves in a low ceilinged space with cool block walls and dirty cement floor. The priest rushed back up the stairs and returned a moment later carrying, two elegantly carved dining room chairs. He passed. The chairs, which and belonged to another century down to Maria, and went to retrieve two more. And they sat, Sarah with Dinah in her arms, vacant eyed and silent, Naomi beside them holding a small bag with water and food, Maria facing the priest who leaned    

104

forward to hold her hand, her other clutching the small semi automatic she had been learning to shot. His own shotgun leaning against his leg. The sat biding the time biting back their fears. They waited.
Bo was running his feet bounding hard against pavement, this laungs burning wit the exertion. He made it as fast as the boat ramp and here he stopped, breathing hard. He was fairly certain no one had seen him, backing up as it he was finding a position behind the …………………is on the exit ramp, and even if they had what of it? But even now his decision seemed less final, the vague notion to turn around and go back passed through him. He looked that direction, from where he came, and only memories where there. Bitterness and pain. Another passing thought, perhaps the bitterness and pain were not there, back where did fled. What if they would follow him still, derailing his escape, a convict from a prison of his own waking pursed by the dogs of hell, feral demons of his own mind. Bu the anger was to much, it welled over every thought blocking the paths is might otherwise use to release the pressure of his own mind. He turned down the boatramp, jogging, the shotgun in his hands swaging back and forth. He leapt down a short flight of wooden steps onto the old dock, its dry rotting boards bending beneath his feet. He untied the ropes that bound the vessel to the dock and jumped on the boat. Aaron took excellent care of the machine and it started immediately the engine low purring, the water charming beneath its prop, he put the engine in gear and headed out river, looking pack to make sure he was unsung, to make sure that he was pursued by nothing more than his own torment.

Lenny paced back and forth across the cement floor of the wharehouse, his  leather boots making a smacking sound, his anger apparent in the way he pounded the floor as he stepped. “Sit down Leeny. The older man with the black eyebrows and heavily tined face commanded him. His words were soft, cool, yet filled with some other worldly menace, and if you could see the eyes perpetually shaded by the black cowboy hat, you would know for a certainty that they contained some ethereal evil. They all but glowed red with the fires of hell. Lenny pulled a wooden stool into the loose circle and sat.” Patience, Lenny Patience he scrapped back, his high voice nasally, angry “My brother has a chunk of road where his brain used to be, and you say patience.” The response was so cool, almost hypnotic, as if it emanated from his own mind. “Yes Lenny, Patience, You will have your revenge Lenny, bide the time, we wait until dark.” Lenny seemed palcatd, at least momentarily. The one with the black cowboy hat, their leader looked at the othes. They all hope that Lenny would be still for a little while at least ; at least until it relly was time. There were ………….. of them now and the women, and they waited. They were waiting for dark, now that they knew the people in the town would be prepared for them, ready for them. How they had been snuck on they didn’t know, but that it was someone from the town was certain, they had not met anyone else within a hundred miles from here. The last folk they had encountered had been man and his woman, and it had certainly not worked out well for the man. So how they would wait, there element of surprise having been lost. “Hey who’s there?” The roundface boldman with squinty eye was sitting on a stool outside of the bag doors, posted as lookout. Hey put your hands up, Don’t move.” The shortly stock man in the ……………. shirt shouted again, garbled commands excitedly ……………. from his pudgy face.    

106

Bot the man who approached already had his hands raised. He emerged unheard from the shadows like a cat, holding the shotgun high over his head in a gesture of surrender. “I’m here to talk”. A fat man, sitting inside, rushed to join the roundfaced man, raising a in his direction “what do we have to talk about”. Spit flew from the mans fat lips, catching in his thick black beard and bushy mustache. “Huh? What do you have to say to us?” He cocked the revolver. Lenny shot cut of the shadows aiming a lever action rifle at Bo’s head, Lenny practically dancing with excitement. “You wanna die?” Boy I think you want to die. Lenny sneered, hopping from foot to foot. The on who was the leader stepped out of the warehouse followed by a young man dressed in all black with a black baseball cap from some now extinct team. The youth barely looked old enough to drink, that was, when there were laws concerning those types of things. The one who was the leader looked at the young man, and then at clay. “See if he’s alone”. They moved each going in opposite directions, following the perimeter of the warehouse. He looked back at Bo. “Take his gun.” Lenny compiled, snatching the weapon from Bo’s hands and shaving the barrel of his own in his back, pushing him inside to where their leader was already seated on one of the stools. “Have a seat”. His voice low, enticing. Bo sat. “What brings you to us” “I….” Bo hesitated, suddenly unsure. “I’m not going to die for them.” “Are you the who killed the man out back” Lenny tensed at this his face twisting in rage, shoving the gun once again into Bo’s flesh. Bo winced. “No, no that was the boy” “A boy?” Lenny nearly yelled, shoving the barrel in again “Liar, Liar” “Enough” The leader silenced him. “And why do we need you?” “Because I know where the women are hiding. It’s the women you want right?” He raised his eyebrows, stating his case. “And I can get you there right past where they’re waiting for you.” The two men who had gone to scout the perimeter had returned, they nodded to the man in the black leather hat, who looked back at Bo. “And what is it you want in exchange for your help.” “I want the foreign girl, Maria” Glances shot between the other men ; there had already been arguments over who would claim her, but before any could lodge a complaint, their leader nodded and spoke “Done”. Now teel me what is this plan of yours? David was growing restless, the sun was dying at the edge of the sky and still there had been no movement from across the bridge. They watched, waiting looking for any sign of movement. He knew that they would approach cautiously knowing that they were most likely being awaited, the death of one of them, alerting them. So when David saw the fat man on the motorcycle, bearing a white cloth waving it like a flag, to and from he was confused. It didn’t make sense, or rather, the only sense it made was that it was some kind of trap. David stood facing the rider as he rumbled closer, still waving the flag. David leveled the gun. Steadying with both hands. He pulled the trigger. The sound of the bullet pinging off of the motorcycle’s steel could be heard as the bike began to wobble, the fat rider jumping off as, he lost control of the machine. The rider swore loudly and hobbled backwards making for the rear of a car which he ducked behind. There would be no peace today. David thought, and fired. 

108

Clay held the ………… loosely in the direction of Bo ; they trusted him, but the barrel of the rifle served as warning, insurance against betrayal by this man who’s loyalties would charged so easily. The leader had walked over to his motocycle and was returning to where Clay, Bo and the woman stood. He was dragging a chain whose end secured to the fram of the black bike. He approached the woman, her eyes terrified, and she stuck out her hand in supplication. The end of the chain was attached to a handcuff, he took its pair and cuffed her wrist, like a dog on a leash.

The leader turned away from her and motioned for the two men to follow. He had sent the others to the bridge, perhaps to die, but most likely not. They would distract those waiting on the bridge, keeping them busy while he would cross with Bo and Clay. They made there way to the river’s edge, finding the where Bo had left it, floating, gentle waves lapping against it metal hull. They boarded, and firing up the engine, cut through the coming darkness to the town across the river. Kid + Lenny go on boat, circle behind those on bridge.

The landed the boat a few minutes later, and quickly headed up the short ramp, becoming shadows in the dusk. They huddled against the brick façade of the hardware store, peesing around its corner into the fading light. There was no movement, the main through fare ghostly vacant. They crept up the sidewalk twining the corner toward the houses that were occupied by the townspeople. Bo pointing the way. In the darkness they huddled behind and old blue sedan that was parked opposite the Victorian house on the corner. They sat, Bo, between the other men waiting.

The priest heard the first few shots ring out and he knew it had begun. Trepidation and fear rose within him. He was afraid of what would happen next, what side fate would chose as victor. He prayed. He hoped. He wished, wanting to believe that some God out there still heard his prayers, that his faith still had meaning in this lost world, but he doubted, and it was this doubt that ushered in the fear. The fear making him ………….., unable to sit still, to wait for some cold fate to come to him. He stood. 
“I think I should be with them”, he said, almost to himself, “I’d better….” his words trailed off.
Dinah looked up. “You can go with …………. , we are okay”. She seemed to sense his anxiety. Maria help dup the small handgun, and smiled, trying to convince herself “We’re fine”. The priest turned and hurried up the steps.

As he left the yard of the old Victorian house he heard another volley of gunfire, their loud explosions piercing the air. He picked quickened his step as he strode up the street.

They saw the priest step from the porch of the house. “Want me to get him, boss” Clay asked, aiming the rifle at the priest who was waking quickly up the street. “No, we wait, we don’t want to warn the others on the bridge.” Clay relaxed, waiting. The gunfire starting and than peaking, the loud pops cutting through the night competing with the pounding of their hearts.

As soon as the priest had rounded the corner of the grocery they moved, darting quickly cross the street and up the ……….. steps, moving stealthily into the house. Bo know what he was to do ; he found his voice and called down the steps. “Come on up, it’s okay…. It’s over.”  

110

His words tasted like ashes in his mouth, this final act of betrayal, and though in his mind they were less than convincing, they worked. Naomi came up the steps Priest, carrying her small satchel, smiling as she entered the dark kitchen when the rickety wooden steps led. A big hand grabbed her from behind covering her mouth, a smooth voice saying “shhh” in her ear. Sarah was coming up the steps ushering Dinah before her, the little girl asking, if it was really over, Maria close behind, the gun relaxed in her unsuspecting hand.

Dinah eyes widened in flight, when she saw the men when she saw the guns pointed at them. A gasp escaped her lips as Sarah pulled her close, Maria quickly tucked the gun behind her back in her waistline pocketing the gun unseen in the dark room, her nerves on edge “Keep them occupied”. The man with the black cowboy hat said as he descended the steps slowly, gun raised, looking for others, looking fo a trap. He was back a moment later. “You done good Bo, you done good”. He spoke as he circle around behind the man, whose smile was resigned, there being no victory in betrayal.

It happed in an instant, the small blade was out, the man drawing it across Bo’s throat, opening it, creating a lurid red smile that spit his life’s blood onto the floor. He fell to floor, his body crumpling in a heap. Now ladies, we’re going to have ourselves a party, he laughed deeply, menacingly the lines on his face clicking, deepening. His tipped the black leather cowboy hat at them and you’re the guests of horror. He looked at the women, they were lined up in front of a counter top and a row of cabinets that sat beside the basement door. They old woman held the girl tightly, a look of hard defiance in her eyes. “You evil son of a bitch”. The men’s smile grew at this widening. It was the smile of some insane clown in a rodeo of death. “Then you must be my mummy bitch”. He looked from Sarah to Naomi, “come let’s dance”. He grabbed her hand pulling her close, wrapping this gun hand around her back, and leaning his chin on her shoulder. Waving his 357 while he danced his morbid dance looking over the limp shoulder of the woman at the others. The look threatening, as if in their refection was all the evil of the world.

Clay had seated himself on a counter across the spacious kitchen, now he jumped down, his hulking frame making a deep thud as his boots hit the floor. He walked towards Maria, leering, eyes full of lost. He set his rifle down, leaning it against the stainless steel refrigerator, trusting in his strength to restrain the woman. He began to grope her, his big hands funding soft flesh, the woman froze, his hands working there way down her body, roughly pressing through the rough denim of her pants. She brought her hands back, grabbing the edge of the counter behind her in apparent fright. She was waiting. He licked his lips savagely, and looked down as he fumbled with the buttons of her jeans, lust feverishly taking hold of him ; And then there was the cold hard steel pressing against is forehead that the woman had somehow manage to poll from behind her and then there was nothing as the bullet ripped through his head leaving a small red, third eye. The man with the leather hat saw all in a flash, howling with rage he whipped Naomi from his embrace throwing her to floor. There was no hesitation in his response he moved with an ………………. speed, raising his gun and firing. Maria had only enough to look down, seeing a white blouse blossom with crimson before she feel back against the counter     

112


Her face still showed her shock, her disbelief as she slid down against the counter and died. Dinah screamed, her young high voice ripping through the air. The man danced around lividly, enraged, panting the gun at Sarah, then at Naomi who groaned in pain as she tried to pick herself up. Blood was streaking from her head her hair matted against her scalp. “Why’d you have to go and do that bitch.” He cackled at the dead Maria, his eyes on fire. Why’d you have to go and do that.” Dinah was crying hysterically inconsolable. “Shut her up”. Sarah, pulled her close trying to quiet the ………….. “Shut her up, Shut her up. Shut her up”. Sarah whispered to the girl, hugging her ; She …………….. but the man went on singing his insane song. “Shut her up, Shut her up”.
It was dark on the bridge. Davids blood ran hot in his veins. Jack sat beside him, breathing heavily ; both men learning against the chrome bomber still warm from the day’s heat. A shot rang out and glass sprayed over his head as the car’s windshields exploded above. The music began, the bullets there wines becoming a symphony in the night. David stood, leaning over the trunk, aiming through the blown rear window and firing. His shots adding to the music, …………… through the night, ricocheting off of the steel marks, pinging as they changed trajectories. Jack stayed low caging his way around the vehicle, up its’ side, staying low, crouching as he moved. Another figure moved at the far end of the bridge, running taking his position behind an abandoned blue van. David recognized the man the round feed prevent who had dry humped the air. Movement caught David’s eye, he looked to his right ; Aaron was creeping up, the sidewalk that ran the length of the bridge, ducking below the concrete barriers, unable to be seen by the man behind the van. Shots were coming from behind them now as Joe and Ben fired at the van, Jack firing at the fat man while creeping up the jersey barrier.

Aaron came up beside the van ; as he crept to its rear, the man became visible ; his back towards Aaron, as he leaned against the rear ……….. of the van, rounding the corner sporadically to let of a shot. Aaron, whistled the man spun towards him in surprise and Aaron fired, the force of the buckshot throwing the piggish man backwards off of his feet. Aaron turned to go back, leaving the man sprawled on the pavement.

Lenny moved lithely up the exit ramp, crouched, duck walking up the length of the concrete ………….. , the kid beside him. He’s rage had  not subsided in the least. He could taste his revenge. They had killed his brother and they would pay. Oh, yes they would pay, and he would be the one to do it. He would find this teenage boy Clay spoke of, the one that Bo claimed had killed, Benny. He would find him, and he would pay. He wondered too if the kid beside him would hold up under fire. If he had half the balls as the boy David, their kid, they would be alright. They would find ………….

They reached the top of the exit ramp. Lenny stuck his head above the barrier for a moment, long enough to survey the situation. He looked at the pay, who was …………… with an older shotgun and a pocket foil of shells. There are two of them directly ahead of us behind a blue pickup. You get the one on the left. The get back down and wait for my word. They kid nodded his head in assent         

114

readying himself. Lenny breathed deepoty, staring straight ahead, preparing for that cold numbness that descended during battle. He looked at the kid. “Nou”. They both stood in unison ; Lenny raising his rifle to his shoulder and firing, the kid mimicking him, firing, pumping the action, firing. The two figures behind the truck lurched forward, their backs filing with holes, their bodies stained red sliding to the pavement, the asphalt stained read. Lenny crouched behind the barrier but the kid remains standing, firing the shotgun, pumping, firing wildly at the two bodies that lay crumpled behind the truck. The kids adrenaline had overridden any rational part of his mind. He could hear Lenny in his ear telling him to get down, but his words were distanct and far away as if they were meant for someone else. He reloaded the shotgun again, fishing the shells from his pocket. He lifted the gun again, a strange stillness has quieted his mind, an unearthly calm. He could see and older man running toward the direction of the blue truck. The man was screaming wildly, but it was as if the sound did not even reach his ears, nor the sound of the gun as it, bucked wildly, expelling it’s deadly projectiles, peppering the old mans body, removing half of his face. The old man dropped. He turned, reloading again, and Lenny still yelling something to him. He looked down at the man and then up again as he felt something smack into his chest, he saw David and the barrel of his. And he saw no more. Aaron heard the gunfire behind him and the shoots. Jack shouting his sons names wildly. He turned and started back on the sidewalk staying low, lifting his head over the barrier to assess the …………….. He was halfway back across the bridge, when his saw Jack, facedown in the middle of the pavement, and David standing, firing back towards the exit ramp. The fatman had crept out from where he had hid and was circling around David’s vehicle, aiming his gun, waiting for a line of sight. “David” Aaron shouted in warning, raising his own gun at the same instant and firing. He watched the fatmans middle explode as he sank to the ground.

Lenny looked at the dead kid beside him, but nothing passed through his mind. No thought, no feelings. Just the empty coldness of battle. Everything moving slowly, time ……………. about him. He stood, he saw the boy David, and his saw a man, shotgun raised having just fired. He saw a massive body laying on the ground in the path of the mans gun. He swung towards the figure and put a bullet between the man’s eyes.

David couldn’t believe that he was seeing. It was Benny, or whatever the mans name was that he had killed with the chunk of asphalt. It was as if he had come back to life to kill them, some avenging ghost. David stood paralyzed. The second it took to realize that he must be staring at the dead mans brother was too much. Before he had time to raise his gun again he felt the bullet enter his chest ; he put his hand to his heart   

116


feeling the warm sticky life flow out of him. He stood, paralyzed, then dropping to both knees, his vision going black as he fell face toward. Dead
The priest was running up the sidewalk, quickening his pace at the sound of gunfire. The gunfire lasted only a short time the rapid pops some dark drumbeat in the night’s air. He rounded the corner by the grocery and froze. The glow of the moonlight reflected off of the abandoned vehicles and cash an ………… glow upon all of the town. A lone figure was running down the exit ramp bearing a rifle across his chest. He ran with the bearing of a man headed towards something, with the perfect knowledge that nothing pursued him.
The priest leaned flat against the yellow brick wall of the store, adding along it until he reached the glass entrance door. He ducked into the store a melted into the shadows. His heart was racing, the pounding in his cars as loud as the gunfire from before. The priest stood still, flat against the wall of the entryway, waiting. The knowledge that something must have gone terribly wrong for this stranger to have arrived, him having made this way across the bridge unscathed. His mind was churning, a mass of fear. He wanted to step from the shadows, and stop this man. And then there was the pop pop of gunfire coming from close by down the street. Two different guns, one small, it’s sound pale in comparison to the boom that followed. The man in the street had hesitated looking for streetsigns, but now having heard the shots, turned down the street alongside the grocery, running again. The priest watched unmoving, paralyzed by fear. “We should be expecting visitors soon”. The leader laughed his insane laugh. “Maybe yours, maybe mine. You people have turned out to be real peaches.” He laughed again. “Give me your hand”. He spoke to Naomi, who sat vacant eyed and listless. The man pulled out two sets of handcuffs from his back pocket, fixing one cuff to Naomi’s right arm and the other to the handle of the stainless steel refrigerator. He motioned for her other hand, and he slapped the cuff on it, pressing sadistically hard on to the metal, until the woman’s face showed the pain he craved. Sarah already had her out, the look in her/eyes giving him pause the naked hostility in her stare. He cuffed her wrist, linking the two women to the refrigerator in a ghostly chain like human ………….. He looked at Dinah, roughly grapping her chin and twisting her head towards him. Now don’t you running off on me now, ya hear. Or I’m going to do to her like I did to Bo. You hear me. She was silent, her eyes looking right through him. He shook her head up and down for her, his fingers squeezing her cheeks leaving sharp indents. “Say yes sir, yes sir, I hear you very well.” He grinned. “Now you ladies don’t have anything else I should know about do you? Anymore surprises?” He began to grape the woman one by one, lingering to long on Naomi, her chest between her legs, tears streaking down her pale still face. “What have we got here?” He reached in Naomi’s satchel pulling out a loaf of bread and a few bottles of water, dropping them on the floor, and turning the beg inside out before tossing it across the room. He stood. Ok ladies, you be good now, while I see which team makes it back from the OK Corral. He began laughing again, hard this time, doubling over at his own humour. He wiped the tears from his eyes and walked  

118

over to the window above the kitchen sink. He looked out and, finding its angle good, used the butt of the gun to break the lower left square pain, and cocked the weapon, aiming it through the window.

It was only a few minutes before he saw the one figure running up the street, slowing as he approached the corner, looking around in the moonlight for his destination. “Is that you Lenny?” ………………. recognize that hat anywhere? Is all well? It’s only me boss, but there all dead. The insane man gave a whoop and withdraw his gun from the window, singing some insane rendition of an old song from a bygone era. “We are the champions, me and my friends.” He turned towards the woman, laughing hysterically. “Sing it with me gals…….. We’ll keep on fighting till the end Dundondon”. His serenade was interrupted as Lenny came in the house, and joined them in the kitchen, stopping dead when he saw the bodies on the floor. “What the hell?” “Oh, we had ourselves a right fine dance, we did. A regular old ………….. Clay here…. he couldn’t keep up”. He kicked Clays limp body. “And Maria there she’s a real party-…………..” Lenny looked at Maria, lifeless on the floor. “It’s a shame about this one.” He went on, “I counted five of them up there on the bridge.” I think we’re short one. He looked down at the woman, who sat unmoving, Dinah stifling her tears. “Which one of your men wasn’t on the bridge huh?” He received no answer but a look of hostility from Sarah, who spit in his general direction. He bent down and slapped her hard across the face. Her face remained hard and impassive but her eyes began to water at their edges, the only sign of pain she gave. “Lenny, get out there on the porch, be ready.” I think he’s long gone by now, if he had any sense at least. “Nevertheless get out there, we don’t want to be caught unawares.” He raised the gun to the windowsill once more and waited. The priest crept out of the grocery and to the street, staying in the shadows, edging his way up the block. He held the gun across his chest, his palms sweating. He heard something up ahead at the house, a man came out on the porch, the man with the cowboy hat who had passed a few moments ago. The priest ducked behind a bush, crouching in the shadows of the hedge, his breath caught in his throat. The man on the porch sat on an old wooden rocker and began to whistle the tune, the other man had just sung, the high notes the only sound in the still night air. “I know your out there”, he said when he had finished the tune. “We’ve got your womanfolk, well some of them.” “Hey boss, why don’t you bring them bitches out here”. There was a pause as the ………….. contemplated this. “Why the hell not” he uncuffed the shackle affixed the refrigerator, and sharply yanked Naomi to her feet, Sarah stood as well holding Dinah’s little hand. Dinah reached down to grab the fallen loaf of bread and water bottle from the floor as they were pulled outside and cuffed to the porch’s wooden banister. The leader with pure insanity in his eyes paced the length of the porch waving his gun at the open air, his otherworldly grin, leering and treacherous. 
“Come on man, we know you out there”. They were calling to him The priest, frozen, moved not a muscle, the sweat beading down his face, his breath fast and sharp. He saw Naomi and Sara and Dinah, but where was Maria? A horrible sick feeling welled inside of him. He wanted to wretch. He bit back the …………. , afraid to make the slightest movement. 
   
120

“Aren’t you going to come out and play”. The leader shouted from the porch. Lenny was quiet for a moment, apparently deep in thought, and then he yelled.” I’m going to venture a guess and say that you’re the priest….. I saw the old guy, and from the look on his face… his two sons, and the middle age fella. I put one right in his head…. I did, and the boy, the one who killed my brother…….. he got it too.” He laughed and looked down at the woman, the news of what they already know unmoving them, still as they are. “So, I think that your all that’s left priest, so why don’t you come ……………. your flock.” The leader cackled at that then began to sing again, the tune of an old rock song “Dear Priest, won’t you come out to play”. He let out a loud peel of laughter, like a loon in the night.

The priest couldn’t move, he couldn’t himself to move. He thought he might be able to get the drop on them, but he was unsure. He knew he could certainly draw them out, at least give the women a chance and perhaps he could kil both men, there was decent change at least, but he would almost certainly not make it out alive. And even as this was running through his mind, he knew he would do no such thing. He knew he would stay hidden, the fear paralyzing him. Wanting so much to attack, to charge, to throw caution to the wind, to sacrifice himself for some good, to lay down his life for a friend. Yet he was unable. Stock, static in his position. His heart was hammering as he willed himself to move, commanded his body to stand and advance, but it did not, would not obey, that will to survive, for self-preservation overriding every other emotion, belittling his faith and all his noble beliefs, making a mockery of the love he surely felt for these people.

“Come on priest, come play with us”. The insane laughter peeling from the madman’s mouth. He waited. Lenny replying. He’s gone, he’s probably long gone by now, if he was smart he would be. The priest did not move. He watched them for some time, he watched the two men settle in, Lenny on the rocker, the other posted up on the bannister. He saw Sarah from where he hid, her eyes looking out almost as if she could see him, her defiant eyes reflecting the moonlight. He felt her gaze probing his mind and he blanched believing that she could red his innerself, his fear, so plainly from so far away. Her eyes honing in on him, sitting in judgment upon him, as if to levy the sentence of one thousand deaths for his cowardice. He saw her take the read labeled bottle from Dinah, uncapped it, and passed it to Naomi. Dinah began to sing as Naomi drank and passed the bottle to the girl, who drank and passed it again to Sarah. This little light of mine, I’m gonna let it shine, This little light of mine. I’m gonna let it shine. The madman turned to shut the girl up but it was to late, the …………………. had started and the words died with the women.

The priest fled. He fled into the darkness, running, pursued by the ghosts behind him. By their memory. By their judgement.











122
NOW

The short pudgy man in the brown clock led them along the trecks. The priest stepping over the rails as the man followed veered off to the right as the high concrete tunnels split into two. The dimly lit passage took them beside a defunct subway, the walkway between the dirty cement wall and the train narrowing, forcing the four men to walk single file. Little drops of black murky water condensed on the walls and ceiling, dripping, falling into small puddles making tiny splashing sound in that echoed in the noiseless chamber. As they progressed into the dark underground, the priest sensed movement in the subway cars beside them. Muffled sounds like dragging footsteps could be heard by the car’s windows were blacked from the inside, with what he did not know.

“How many of you are there” the priest almost whispered, the atmosphere subduing him as if all the weight of the earth above were pressing down on him. “We are many” the short pudgy one said, offering nothing else. They continued walking, “What do you live off of, what do you eat, where do you sleep?” The priest lost himself, his usual reservation, his tendency to do serve in silence passing as he coped with the surreality of this place. “We breed certain animals for food, and we receive tithes of grain from some we watch over north of here, but we are meager in our needs. Many of us work up top, but the fruits of our labor descend below.” They came upon another small set of steps leading up to a small domed hallway, some maintenance tunnel of yesteryear. The man went on “Our cells are the old vehicles of the underground, which we just passed, there are many about the tunnels, one train is for us, the other for our women” “Cells?” The man paused, eyes squinting, eyebrows furrowing. “You are a man of the cloth no?” I would have thought you took my meaning. We are brother here, what you would have called monks in another age. As such, we all our quarters, cells. “The priest nodded, he knew that of course but it was as if the world of ago and the world of now had been suddenly just …………. , some bizarre post apocalyptic steamponk fantasy come to life. He left further questions unasked, deciding that this macabre place would reveal its secrets to him in time, that the foreignness of this underground would recede as its inner workings became familiar to him.

Again the concrete hallway they walked was lit with oil lamps, and gain he wondered who was responsible for filling them and where the oil came from, and again he kept his peace. The hallway turned and turned again as they walked, passing other intersecting tunnels, some lit, other darker than night leading into some black depth. Eventually the tunnel seemed to brighten and they entered a large hall that stretched out in each direction and spread out before him. It had high vaulted concrete ceilings from which hung obscene chandeliers, made from what looked like a wagon wheel adorned with candles. They were suspended low to the ground from chains, the was dripping, pooling onto a large oak table that stretched the length of the hall. The wax forming bizarre sculptures where it fell.
124

The priest felt as if he had stepped into some me devil castle. He looked around in wonder at the spectacle. The short pudgy monk walked to the end of the hall bidding the priest to follow. He pulled back the chair at the end of the table and motioned to the seat. “Come sit, this is our place of honor. We rarely have guests.” The priest sat, the short pudgy man pulling out the heavy oak chair beside him and taking his seat. He turned back toward the two monks who had brought him this far and waved them way, dismissing them almost nonchalantly. “Would you like a refreshment?” “Yes” The priest nodded. “Girl” The monk yelled towards the other end of the hall. From the shadows emerge a slight figure wearing the familiar brown robe with hood raised, hiding the face of the wearer in shadows, nothing revealed but the slight hint of feminimity. The hooded girld scampered to the side of the monk ; hands clasped and head down in supplication. “Water” she ran off, returning merely a moment later with two intricately carved wooden cups. She set one in front of each man and hurried sway seemingly melting into the wall at the far end of the vaulted tunnel. He drank. The water was cool and crisp, surprising him, and he wondered again where had it come from. He had half expected the water to be that murky black liquid that was the undergrounds’ own rain. “We will be eating shortly. We have arrived early, the brethren are at vespers.” The priest nodded, a hundred questions unspoken. He sipped the water and waited. A few minutes later, what seemed like a horde of hooded figures swarmed the hall all carrying wooden dishes and dinnerware setting a place for each chair. The plates, bowls and cups and even forks and spoons were all intricately carved wooden instruments, fine and ornate. The priest picked up a fork, turning it over in his hands, examining the fine craftsmanship, the wood hardened perhaps by fire, the detailed miniature of the handled having required supreme mastery and much time to render. He thought there must be lifetime of work on the table before him, may be more. The hooded figures returned again carrying wood caraffs of some malted beverage and serving trays with warm loaves of dark bread. Many of the serving figures, though hooded, seemed to be children and women, slight of build and moving with feminine grace or childlike quickness. One such figure removed its’ shoes before stepping up onto the table to replace a few failing candles, and jumping down again, quick and agile. When they had completed their preparations they filed out again melting into them shadows as silent and as fast as they had come.

Not a moment later numerous hooded figures descended upon the hall, filing information, two rows, one on eitherside of the table, heads down with clasped hands. Each took a position behind a chair. The short pudgy monk beside him raised a hand and lowered it and all of the monks seated themselves. The monk beside the priest once again raised his hand in a strange gesture, this time miming the act of unhooding onself. The other monks all reached in unison to remove their hoods revealing two long rows of pale shaved heads. The monk explained, “usually, one leads and the others follow, but I, who usually lead, am playing host today, so the commands are reduced to symbolic gestures.” The priest nodded, indicating that he     
126
 he understood, but he didn’t. He didn’t understand any of it. This unearthly comedy, so bizarre and disproportionate to reality. He looked at them, these monks with their sallow sunken pale faces, and not one save the short podgy monk returned his gaze. They stared ahead with perfect discipline, apparently waiting, but for what he could only guess. The, as if to answer his question, a tall slender figure strode in and seated himself at the head of the table. He was unhooded and his face was a mass of deep lines beneath thick eyebrows, weather worn but well aged. He looked down the length of the table briefly catching the priests eyes, then raised his head and spread his hands, palms open. He prayed, the monks chanting in response “LORD of the underground” “Give us refuge” “LORD OF BABEL” “CAST DOWN ICARUS” “Lord before creation” “God of Fire” “Scorch this earth” “So we may rise from its ashes”. The serving monks once again scampered in, carrying large bowls from which they ladled soup for each person seated. The monks began to sup, spooning the hot broth soup to their lips bowls from which they ladled soup for each person seated. The monks began to sup, spooning the hot broth soup to their lips and passing the still warm bread around, each tearing off a meager chunk. The priest likewise, the smell of the making his mouth water, bread being a luxury he had not had in sometime. It was so rich and doughy, so sweet to the taste, he almost lost himself in the moment. “Is the bread to your liking” the voice from across the table was soft and fluid. The priest shook his head, his mouth being full, suddenly aware again of the strangeness around him. The man just smile, the lines on his face deepening. The priest continue to eat, and drink. The thick malted beverage was mildly, alcoholic and his senses dulled as drank deeply, its warmth making its way through his body, caressing his soul. “Has Brother Lucius treated you well?” The man at the head of the table motioned towards the short pudgy monk. “Yes, he has” “Good, good”. So might I ask where are you from? The priest disliked dialogue, the empty banter of words, yet he was committed to this conversation, his responses the least recompense for the hospitality. “I’m from a small community back west, a farming village.” “And what is it you do there?” “I’m make …………” The monk smiled broadly. “Ahh.., a moonshiner”. “In a manner of speaking”. “And what of your priestly duties?” “I have no priestly duties” “Why is that?” Are you not a priest? “I have not practiced in many years.” The priest looked hard at the man, wanting to redirect the conversation, but the man’s eyes seemed to capture him, and hold him at bay, reading him. “And why did you stop practicing.” The priest was curt in his answer, his tone warning the conversation away from this topic. “Before there was no one left to be a priest to, and by the time I found others, I had decided that there was no God for me to be a priest for.” The monk titled his head back, peeling off laughter. A slow anger grew in the priest, an unsure anger, the uncertainty of whether he was being mocked. “Well that’s mighty arrogant of you, to just go and decide that God doesn’t exist ; I wonder how God feels about that.” He continued laughing. The priest clenched his jaw. “How does God feel about the billions and billions of innocent…. the innocent who have died for naught.” “Well priest, according to your own theology ; if they were truly innocent then they would all be in a better place. Imagine, billions of people, mothers, children, husbands…. all on the fast track to”  
128

heaven. What could be better ? “His smile seemed almost evil,” “learning at the priest”. “I see you are getting angry. We do not hold to those beliefs anyway. I was merely playing devil’s for your own professed beliefs.” “I profess nothing”. The words came hard and direct, but they were matched by the monks. “Ahh…. but you do…. your very existence does. Your refusal to let go of the past world. The collar you still wear. The books in your possession. The gold crucifix.” The priest sat upright, the uncomfortable conversation now nakedly hostile with the knowledge they had, gone through his belonging. His heart quickened. “Don’t seem to surprised”. And now there was hostility in the monks voice, subdued mocking hostility. “You see, Priest, I know people like you. You say you do not believe, but you do. You believe for a certainty, you only wish you didn’t believe.For you really hate your God. You hate him so much that you and your kind have murdered your own Gods for all eternity. He rises from the dead so you can kill him again. I say, your God is a real sport, coming back to like all the time. Yes, priest, I know people like you, your unbelief is merely thinly veiled contempt for your own creator and for that made in his image, yourself.”

Your God, the malignant creator and for that made in his image, yourself.

Your God, the malignant creator, the demiurge whose word become flesh has spread like a cancer. We have a God too you know. “He paused for a minute, looking to the other monks.” You heard our prayer. Ours is the God of Babel, confusing mans ambitions. Ours is the god of the fire the destroyer of worlds, the fire that has cleansed the earth. Scorched clean, so that we can rise from the ashes, free of your brand of impurity, yourself contemptuous faith. Ours is the God of …………., the fire that cast him down when he believed himself to be God. “Yes, I know you priest, the sin that you call original is the crux of your guilt, the root of your shame and the foundation of that morality which you can never live up to. Ever leading to your own corruption, you despise your weakness and fallibility, and, ever trying to escape blame, you assign your failings to your God in an out of divine transference. And of course you hate this new God of yours and all his unholy works for which you are utterly blameless, and you kill him. But your God just won’t say dead, and so, the next best thing is to pretend he doesn’t exist at all…. and poof ……. There is no God”. The monk smiled and motioned with his hands spreading them outwards miming an explosion of sorts. The priests heart was hammering, sensing danger but feeling woozy, subdued. The servants were bustling here and there, carrying trays and placing a small portion of meat on every plate. He was served last. It was the meaty carcass of what must be a rodent with its’ head removed, its tail still affixed to the charred crispy body. He turned and retched on the floor, something for stronger than drunkenness coming over him. He looked up, everything appearing as if at a great distance, sounds arriving too late to his ears, in waves. He saw the monk leering at him. The others too, their grins all matching in ghastliness. The monk was speaking again and he thought he recognized that voice, a familiar       

130

madness underlying it.

“Yes priest. I know you very well. Because Time is one my side, yes it is. Time is on my side. Yes it is. You say, you want to be free, but you keep coming back, you keep coming back to me.” The melody drove itself in to the priests’ mind, the voice…. so familiar, but his mind was reeling now, and cloudy so very cloudy. Things were slowing down around him, sound stretching. “Yes priest, I know you very well, do you remember me?” The priest slumped over his head falling, landing on the carcass of a rat.

His eyes opened a crack, his consciousness coming back to him in waves. His head swam and his vision blurred, the world some macabre impressionistic painting in burnt colors. His hands were handcuffed in the front, and there was a monk to either side of him supporting him by his elbows, the priest being unable to stand. The blurred out line of many hooded figures stood before him, each bearing a candle on a small wooden plate, held in place by the pooling wax. The monk from the dinnertable stood before him, this dark abbott with the mad laugh and fiery eyes. The image wavered as his consciousness faded and his knees buckled. The monks at his side brought him sharply up, the pain bringing everything, every detail into focus momentarily. His head lolled and he could see the folds of the brown robe of the man in front of him. The pattern of the course fiber as it folded in on itself creating rivets of shadow and deep creases on the attire, matching the face of the wearer. A voice brought his head up, the drawing his attention to the words that seemed to echo from a great distance, his kind speaks to us of hell, fading out, and in but it is they who have brought down hell upon us. This inverse theology, the echo of reality reaching his ears as the wonk reached out and grasped his collar and ripped it off, throwing it to the ground. Then ripping at this shirt again, tearing where it was buttoned, pulling it down, off of his shoulders where the black cloth hung from his waist, catching on his cuffed hands. His eyes watering uncontrollably, the words still coming in waves. “Confess it, you black prophet of the book, priest of the demiurge. Confess your unholy alliance with the malign creator.” Something was set down hard upon his head biting into his flesh, the pain excruciating and bizarre. Him, lost in his semi-conscious agony, unable to see the ring of barbwire set upon his head, only able to feel the warn tendrils of blood that slowly caressed his face. Preacher of that unholy duality, the false dichotomy of science and faith confess it. His conscious receded into black. When he opened his eyes again he was staring at the base of a thick wooden pole, his hands fastened above his head. He felt the first lash cut across his back, the, sting unreal as the whip tore flesh. For a moment he was outside of himself, looking on at this ritualistic mockery of his former catechism. A divine comedy enacted by madmen upon the store of the river Styx. The whip came down again, and he was inside himself again, able to feel every jot of pain the bearer of the whip inflicted upon his body, caught in the nescience of the material was he. “The world has eaten your apple of Eden and Choked on its’ core”. The words came still, the whip falling, cracking, cutting. The pain. The blackness again. Then the whip, and the pain.   

132

“Confess, so you can enter the dreamless sleep with a clear conscious”. He could hear himself as well, the words slow marking their way to his own ears from afar. “Confess” and a moment later “What”. His head lolled again, the blackness coming. The whipping had stopped he reasoned distantly, his sanity held together by unwilled dissociation. His head was suddenly pulled back and something was pulled over his face, same thin translucent cloth tight over his nose and mouth. And then the liquid being poured onto his face, and over fermented grape juice stinking of urine and vinegar splashing over him, unrelenting. He kicked and thrashed, suffocationg. The drawing sensation overriding the former pain, his body wishing, trying to free itself but the monks once again had him by the elbows. And it was over. He was on his knees gasping for air, panting awake now. “Do you confess it now?” The voice was smooth, hypnotic. He did not answer, he could not answer. There was not answer, the question too unreal, too bizaree. He only heard the words that followed, not comprehending. “You are to be tried by ordeal…… what ordeal say you?” It was not he who was being asked, it was that blood thirsty audience. Crucifixion. They chanted, “Crucifixion”. He awoke some longtime later. His eyes opening, the light dim revealing little, the pain deep, extending through his body, radiating from his backside, the crown of his head. He was lying on a thin wool blanket stretched over a cool damp concrete floor. His head was pounding, the impurities of some drug leeching their way out of him. There was a cool, relieving sensation upon his back as someone behind him, caressed his open wounds with a wet rag. He heard the rage being dipped in some container of water, he heard the dripping as nimble hands wrong the rag, and he felt it again soft and healing. He tried to speak but the words died in his parched throat. “Shh”. It was a woman, a young woman, her voice soft and warm. His eyes blurred once more, his mind fading into the distance, his thoughts emptying into blackness.

He was on the beach, the sand warm beneath his bare feet it grains working there way between his toes. The rushing sound of the surf reached his ears, easy crashing of the waves. He felt good. Warm inside, like his as the sunrays grazed his bare chest. He thought that he was recovering from something, becoming whole again, the memory of what though, escaping him. He walked, squinting in the bright sunlight, and the, behind him, the low growl. He spun, his heart quickening, the blood in his veins moving faster, sensing danger. There was a wolf, large and dark. Its head was low, its body crouched, teeth bared in some frightening display of canine fury. Another growl, behind him. He spun again, more of the beasts, circling him, to his left, his right. The growls growing, turning to howls reaching a bloody crescendo. Then there was a girl, she walked into the circle, the wolves shifting to allow her to pass. It was the girl, yet it wasn’t. She was different older. She reached for his hand, taking it, pulling him way, out of the circle; and then they were running. His body moving, legs pumping, straining. The salty air stung his lungs, the wind whipping his face. They were fast upon them, the wolves braying at their pray, smelling blood. The priest and the woman ran, kicking sand as their feet gripped the earth and flung their bodies forward. The priest gasped at the air, his lungs unable to sustain the pace of his body, his breath failing

134

him, impeded by the growing cancer. He began to fall, coughing, bloody sputum flying from this mouth, peppering the sand red. He was on his knees, holding his throat, unable to breath; the wolves closing in.
He was awake, lying on his side gasping for breath. The coughing wiping all memory of the dream from his conscious, his only thought, the next breath. The tension in his body relaxed his breathing slowed, deepening. He could see the red flecks in his spittle on the cement floor. He eased himself up slowly, pushing through the intense pain that racked his body. There was a warm loaf of bread on a plate beside him, it crust flaky and brown. Beside it, a carved wooden cup filled with sweet warm milk. He did not know how long his fast had been, but he ate and drunk slowly, methodically, fighting back the urge to retch. He looked around him, he was in cell of some kind, with a short domed ceiling that sloped to the floor on three sides. The fourth side of his prison, a row of rusted iron bars, a gate padiocked. He was in some underground crupt, in the bowels of a long dead cathedral. Every sound around him seemed to echo, a dripping somewhere outside his cell, reverberating through the tunnels beyond. He shook his head to clear his thoughts. There was a song seemingly floating along the passages a girls voice, sweet and melodious. A distant echo at first, then loader as the singer approached. “This little light of mine, I’m gonna let it shine, this little light of mine, I’m gonna let him shine.” His mind was confused, dazed and hangover. “Dinah??” …… “Dinah??” His voice was hoarse and weak, the words a low croak. The girl appeared, beautiful, radiant with flowing blond hair and small fine features. Her skin glow and her belly swollen with child. He felt as if he had awoken from on dream into another. “Is the you Dinah” She unlocked the cell with a key dangling from a small silver chain about her neck, returning it to where it was hidden beneath her course brown robe. From inside her robe she removed a small covered bowl ………….. from wood, she uncapped the bowl and seated herself beside him before she answered his question. “You are still delirious, you need to rest.” She dug her fingers into the bowl removing a dab of a white paste that she rubbed on the priests’ open wounds, the relief that came was immediate as the salve cooled and numbed the lacerations, “who are you?” “Nobody in particular, just a girl”. “What is you name”. “I don’t have one” He was puzzled, How could you not have a name? What do they call you? “………… , sometimes even woman now, because of baby.” She patted her belly, “though I like girl better, I don’t like the look in their eyes when they say woman”. She grimaced as she said this as if recalling some unpleasantness. “Where did you learn that song?” She continued to rub the slave on his wounds. “My mother used to sing it to me when I was little, she said it was always my favorite song.” She smiled now, this new recollection more pleasant than the last. She rose then, capping the bowl and tucking it away beneath her rube. “Go back to sleep, you need rest, lots of rest. You are going to heed your rest”. She departed at that, locking the cell behind her, her footsteps echoing as she receded into the darkness. He slept dreamless and deep

136

The monk was there he awoke, sitting cross-ledged on a wooden chair outside of this cell. When he saw the priests eyes flutter open he grinned his lunatic grin. “Pirest, how do you fare” The priest himself up quickly, teeth clenched, his jaw tight as angers seethed in him. “Have our accommodations been to your liking?” “His strange laugh came out almost as a giggle. “Go to hell” the priest nearly spot the words. “Hell? I thought you didn’t believe in such things Priest.” He sat for a moment pensive. “Neither mind priest, what you believe and what I believe are no matter. Even that God of yours cares not  a jot for whether you believe in him or not. He most certainly will go on without your faith. I’m sure he will survive your contemp. It is you that needs him, which I am sure you once knew, but have somewhere forgotten. I certainly believe in him”. He smiled , expecting some response. “Does that surprise you?” “I am well past surprise”. The laughter again, as if in every word were some secret comedy. “Good, because it shouldn’t. We have something in common, you and I, and that, which we share is nonetheless irrelevant to the present situation we find ourselves in. You see, we are both victims of circumstance. My temporal power rests in my ability to give my people what they want, and what they want, what they need is some enemy. Someone to blame for this …………… reality that has become humanities lot, and alas, the old Gods will do. Your God, My God”. He paused, looking for a reaction. “Yes, My God, though I may father a few lies for those who see through a glass darkly, and I will put you on trial for their benefit. To placate them I will offer you as a sacrifice to the new order………and really, it works out quite nicely doesn’t it…. We get to finish something we started so long ago.” He laughed, the peels echoing down the hallway. “It does have a nice neat storybook end, doesn’t it.” That high peeling laughter, then sudden quiet seriousness, “though my judgment upon you, your faith stands. At our supper, My words were true, however I twist an unholy exegesis for the benefit of those who need lies.” The monk stood suddenly. His ………., eyes probing the priest’s very core. “I saw you run. I could smell your fear. And I taste it now.” The priest staring back into those two black pools, his own reflection staring back at him. The monk leaned down bringing his pale face close to the bars. He hissed. “The God you do not believe in, you had better pray to him now Priest, you will be meeting him soon enough.” He didn’t know how long had past, days and nights without meaning. A perpetual dimness belonging to this underground chamber. He slept. He awake to food, and he slept again. Then the girl was there, the creaking of the iron gate waking him. She sat beside him, tending to his wounds. “Where am I?” He asked her, his voice strengthened some. “Why we are under the city of course” He let her healing hands work their magic. “What is it they want to do with me?” She stopped, her hands frozen. “They will try you” “Try me how?” “By crucifixion of couse, it is how all heretics are tried” “The priest felt a wave of fear, wash over”   

138

over him. “What does that mean? How is one tried by crucifixion”. He was afraid to answer his own question. “You will be put upon a cross, arms wide like this”. She stretched her arms out. “Then you will be give a footstool, and you must stand tippy toe upon the stool for three days to prevent the weight of your body from pulling you down and suffocating you. And when you are found guilty your body will be burnt upon the cross to purify it”. Her description was so matter of fact. The priest wondered how many she had witnessed. “And after the three days?” “I guess you would be innocent then.” “You guess?” “No one has ever survived the three days.”
“How many have I been here?” She had brought him fresh bread, cheese and milk. “Many vespers”. He had awoken to her presence numerous times now, sometimes to her singing, someties to her healing hand anointing his body with salve, other times to her just watching him. “When am I to be tried?” He asked her. “When the Abbot believes you are healthy enough. He says you must be healthy to have a fair trial.” He looked to see if she recognized the irony in her statement, but she did not. He hesitated, then asked, “Is there away out of here?” “How do you mean?” “To escape.” “Escape where?” “Escape here. Outside, Above. Away from here”. He did not understand why she did not understand. “Where would you go?” “There is nothing but there.” He understand then. “You have never been outside”. “One for a trail, it was terrible, destruction everywhere, the purified land black in all directions. I couldn’t wait to come back.” He smiled at the humor in her naivete, his voice softened. “It is not like that everywhere child, only where the cities were.” She contemplated this, unsure is she could believe this. “For truth?” “For truth” She thought some more. “Where did you come from?” Some whisper that you come from above, Is this true? “It is?” She lowered her face closer to his, lowering her voice to a whisper, her eyes wide. “What is it like in her other places, the places not burnt?” He told her. He told her of the suns and the stars, of the rich earth and the plants that sprung from it, and of the flowers, whose wonderful scent drew all manner of living creatures to it. He told her of the boy and the woman and what a house was like. He described mountains and fields and clouds in the sky and the thunder and rain that came from it. He told her of so many things and more. And he told her of the warm white sand of the beach, and finally of the glorious ocean, it’s magnificent waves and how they crash down upon the shore with the force of an endless sea behind them stretching into the distance as far as the eye can see. When he was done she was crying. For she believed all that he said, knew it to be truth as surely as babe knows its mother. She cried for all the lies she had been told, for all the wonders that had been kept from her. She …………….. recognized in an instant the misery of that underground servitude, she saw clearly for the first time the walls of her captivity and she wept for her unborn child and its pitiful destiny. She wept for her freedom. She looked in his eyes then. “Take me to this place.”   

140

When she came again she brought news. He wants to know if you are healthy enough to stand trial. “And what did you tell him.” “I told him you were not”. “And does he believe you.” “For now.” He had lost blod and suffered great pain, the lacerations on his backside having made every movement a struggle, but they were healing under the care of the girl. And a girl she was, so full of innocence, her eyes just now opening, aware. She had begun to hide food, and she had stolen an extra robe for him, for he knew the cold would be upon them soon. He described snow to her, the fragile crystals of water each frozen in a unique shape falling softly from the sky, covering everything in a soft white blanket. That blanket so bright, that even the night was illuminated as the day. He told her how those soft flakes caressed one’s warm skin turning back to beads of water. She listened to all of this with wonder and delight, wanting to hear more, yearning for the world she never new and a better existence for her child. An existence where that child would grow, up having a name, where she would have a name. “Are they a smooth brown material with metal buckles about this big?” She held her hands shoulder width apart. “They are”. She obviously knew what a buckle was, but not leather. “And this gun”. She hesitated on the word. It is a long tube with a wooden edn you say, about this high? “Again she motioned with her hands, holding one just below her waist. He nooded his head, and she smiled broadly.” I know where your belongings are, they are in the masters quarters. I scratched, some of the black covering off of the glass and I saw inside. “And?” “I can get them.” She was grinning, proud of herself he smiled. The gun improved their chance dramatically. “And the horse?” She hesitated, not so sure now. “I think I know where it would be, if it is kept with the other animals.” It is far though, and dark. These who walk tunnels bear their own light. “Are you sure the animals are there”. “I have heard talk that they are, and I have been the funny grain that they carry in that directions. I asked my sister about it and she says it is for the animals to eat.” He nodded, comforted by this information, then asked, “your sister?” “yes” “How many sisters do you have?” “Many” “From the same parents?” She did not understand this, or perhaps it was that particular word. “The same mother and father”. She still did not seem to entirely grasp his question. “Some have the same mother as I, though we know her no more, having reached the age.” He heard this and let it go, deciding it was some dark strangeness he would rather not know, “And your father?” She wrinkled her nose, “Father? They are all fathers to each of us. He was going to ask who the father of her child was, but he decided against that as well, guessing that she assuredly would not know. Perhaps, that she did not understand that particular biological concept.”

“Tomorrow must be the night”. She was talking quickly, excitedly, the words rushing out of her mouth. “You are to be tried the vespers after next.” The spite dried from his mouth; he suddenly became anxious, the imminence of what was before him becoming real. “And the guard?”, “I have been bringing him beer for many a vespers now. He has been eyeing me as well. He will be drunk.” She paused. “Will you be able to do it?” “Yes” He answered quietly, hoping he could, wishing he could, and willing himself to when the time came.

142

“Yes”. He repeated to reassure himself as much as to reassure her. She left him then, with the promise to return. He alone with his thought, his self-doubts him dreams. Dreams of the wolves again, the beach. Him running, fleeing those rabid dogs, yet running towards, towards, towards what? He did not know. Something in the distance eluding him. His goal stretching out into the distance as his pursuers closed in on him.

It was time. He could see that she was nervous as she approached, unlocking the door of the last time. “Are you ready?” She spoke in hushed tones, anxious. “Yes”. He spoke calmly but his face betrayed his own anxiety. She reached beneath her brown cloak bringing another brown cloak, neatly folded, that she had hidden upon her person. He took it, and put it on quickly, then looked at her, preparing himself. From beneath her robe she brought forth a length of thick metal wire, a remnant of some underground machinery. He took that as well, winding each end around his hand and pulling it taut, testing its strength. He nodded, looking her in the eyes. Seeing that sad innocence, and her fear. He saw in them the trust the she had for him, her reliance on his word. She, ready to cast all she knew to the side, believing in him to deliver her unto his world. She, believing in him, more than he believed in himself. “We must hurry. I have taken your belongings already. We have until they are noticed, or until we are noticed.” Missing, she did not add. He followed her out of the gate, stepping softly down a dimly lit corridor. At the end was a heavy wood door. She paused, steeling herself for the next few moments. The point of no return upon them. The priest looked at the wire in his hands and prayed for the strength to do what needed to be done. To take this life, to save two others. He had never killed before, the memory of his failing hot and sharp in his mind. He nodded and pressed himself back to the wall, quiet and still. The door opened with a low groan and she stepped through the entrance, circling around, then turning to face the hooded man who was sitting on a chair beside the doorway. He stood when he saw her, smiling, learning at her. She smiled a ……………. smile in return and……… the priest was upon him, the wire around the mans neck pulling tight, his hands clawing at the place where the wire bit his flesh drawing blood. His face was turning scarlet, his mouth, his features contorting. His arms, his legs began to buck and kick, his body writhing, but the priest, the priest was firm and held his grip until the man’s life passed from his strangled body. The priest released him, the corpse falling to the ground with a …………. The priest dropped the wire and hurried, down the hallway after the girl.

They fled, tunnel after tunnel, her perfect knowledge of each turn and each bend taking them closer to the light. The small network of tunnels ended, opening into the elaborate labyrinth of the larger subway tunnels. Here they slowed, donning their hoods, and walking along the tracks as if they were brethren with a purpose, not escapes bound for freedom. Ahead a hooded figure walked the tracks towards them. The monk approached, close and closer ; the priests heart hammering in his throat and, a perfunctory not and the monk was away, gone, about their business with not a second glance. The tracks veered off through a secondary tunnel, they followed it, moving quicker again as they squeezed.

144

between a train and the curved concrete wall. At the last car of the train the girl stopped, stooping below, and pulling forth the priests saddlebags and his rifle. He smiled as she handed them to him. He swung the bags over his shoulder and checked the rifle. It was still loaded. The moved on, hurrying, as if some darkness was quickening behind them. Eventually they came upon another intersection, with only one of the two paths lit. The girl stepped off of the tracks, hopping over a dark murky pool and clambered up the concrete kneewall. From there, she was able to reach the oillamp that hung there. She brought it down, scrambling back to him. They headed towards the darkness.

The black of the tunnel surrounded them, encroaching upon them, only kept at bay by the tiny flame. They walked as fast as they were able, the tracks treacherous in the dark. Every sound reverberated through the vast tunnels, their footsteps becoming the sound of an army, the dripping from the ceiling, a rainstorm. The tunnel was gradually curving as they moved, loping off in one direction. There was suddenly the sound of voices up ahead. Two voices low, approaching. They froze, the girl looking at him, her face a mask of fear. She mouthed some words, and, blowing out the light, she grabbed his arm, pulling towards the wall. He pressed his back flat against the wet, slimy surface, and waited. The voices approached, growing louder. A light became visible up ahead, a pinpoint of light growing. Two monks carrying a lamp where coming, talking to each other.The priest attempted to slow his breathing, to calm himself, his heart so loud, his breathing so sharp, he thought it impossible that it was not heard. One of the two hooded figures turned towards them in passing, looking right where they were, as if staring through them. His heart, his breath caught, stopped for an instant of time, then resumed as the monks passed, noticing nothing. They did not move for some time, until the fading lamp was well out of sight, long gone. The priest rummaged through his bags, searching for his brass lighter. He could not find it. He searched again. It was not there. She tugged on his arm. They needed go to. They moved, slowly now, the darkness, total. No hint of light reachd them, the girl feeling her away along with one hand on the wall. Their progress was slow but determined, both of them stumbling once, twice and again. After some eternal stretch of time they began to feel a cool breeze whisping through the tunnel, and the darkness began to lift in slow degrees. 

They could hear sounds up ahead as well, the light now enough to make out shadows. And there was the smell ; the animal smells of hay, dying and some darker unpleasant smell. Up ahead they heard a high pitched noise, a ghastly clawing sound, piercing, scratching. Louder as they progressed eventually coming to a place where wooden pens lined the walls, covered in a metal mesh. They came upon them, peering in, seeing a black carpet that moved, thousands of rodents crawling over each other, all screaming in their unholy voice. Further ahead were swine, hundreds in large pens wallowing in their own feces. A hall opened before them, tunnels radiating from all directions. Ahead to the left there were piles of hay, and beyond that a large, lone beast. It was the horse. They had not expected it to be saddled but it was. So, that its reigns could be tied.   

146

as they were to a chain that was affixed to a length of track. The priest rubbed the house, speaking to it softly in its ear, the horse whinnying lowly in recognition. He swung the saddlebags over, affixing them to the animal. Ahead of them in the dim light they could see other large beasts, though more so big as a horse. They turned then, leading the animal back through the large hall of intersecting tunnels, heading down the tunnel from which came the light. Not minutes later the walls gave way as they walked out of the side of a large hill, the subway emerging from the earth as if they had been swallowed and were not spit back out by a great leviathan.

It was dusk, but still it was brighter than that they were accustomed to. The air was cooler than that of the tunnels, the deep underground staying a constant temperature year round. Here it seemed as if fall had descended upon the land, brining then a chill upon a whispy wind. The girl looked about her in wonder, thought the landscape was bleak, the blackened corpse of the city. They had exited the transit system on the northern edge of the metropolitan area, and the priest knew they had to circle back somehow to the highway that ran east and west of the city. The priest had lost a considerable amount of weight, the product of his imprisonment and the disease growing inside him, his body sallow and bony. His weight and that of the girls was easily carried by the large beast, and they rude for some time, she in front of him, as they sat uncomfortably on the saddle designed for one. The sun light was spent but the celestial bodies of the nights sky, illuminated there way, their eerre light reflecting of the tracks and off of all the dead metal things about. Up ahead the priest was able to see the remains of a roadway that had once been suspended above the ground, held aloft by concrete and steel pillars that were now robble, the road itself, a highway, had ……………………… to gravity and lay sprawled on the earth. They stopped for a moment, the priest taking their bearing. He looked at the defunct highway believing it to wrap around the perimeter of the city eventually bringing them to the road they must travel. He had already decide that he must bring this girl and her unborn child back to where he had set out from, the road ahead far uncertain. And he would be leaving her for a certainty at some point, a departure not of his own choice, and when that time came he will need to have found them some semblance of security. Nothing would be so cruel as to rescue this girl only to strand her, pregnant and alone, in this word that was so alien to her.

They left the tracks deciding to follow the road that had fallen from the sky. They rude beside it where they could, winding their way among great piles of debris, twisted steel lightpoles, reflective green signs half buried in wreckage. Thousands of rebar spears jutting out of the concrete wreckage like urban punji sticks ready to impale the unsuspecting wanderer. The road was slow but eventually led to a mass of looping highways that had all, at one time, rude above the land. Everyone now lay where each’s shadow and previously rested, the monolithic pillar still erect in places, shortening       

148

as exists had once brought men and there machines back onto solid ground. They stayed to their right here as they headed south by south west. Two highways merged at this intersection, theirs straightening out and bearing them due west. The priest thought the recognized this place, the monks had taken him by this immense cloverleaf of asphalt. He was glad that the highway had let them off here rather than on the other side of that damned parking garage, the entrance of their surreal lair. Their headstart would have meaning, not having to bypass the place they had just escape. By the girls reckoning they had a good half day start ahead of the monks if only her or the sentry were noticed missing. If perchance the priests prison was visited, or his gun and saddlebag were noted to be gone then there lead would shrink down to that moment of discovery, that blind chance For a certainty by noon tomorrow they would be fugitives, perused by the monks, perhaps riding beasts of their own, perhaps not. The girl had said she had heard of some of their kind riding beasts, though their transport was spoke of as slow and stubborn. If true, and the best the monks had were mules, or some such pack animals then they may outdistance them, yet he also knew that there pursuit would be unrelenting until it was utterly without hope. He knew that in their eyes, he had stolen from them one of their women, pregnant with one of their children. A …………… crime amongst any people. They were heading through the vast industrial area of factories and plants, towers and warehouses, all the demolished gods of civilization. The pries began to see the telephone again, the ones with the blackened bodies. The girl also showed recognition at this ; those crucified ghosts reflecting the moonlight the only sights she had ever seen of this world, that and the stark terrain about them now. How he had not been warned away by those human scare crows he did not know. The trees began again, few at first where mother nature had attempted to plant lone scouts, but soon in earnest. The forest stretching out for many miles from the edge of the city. He saw where he had camped previously. He remembered the firelight on their faces, the stump of the mute’s tongue. He asked the girl. “I met a monk whose tongue was barely a stump?” “Do you know of him?” “I know of many who have tongues like that. They were cut out, punishment for breaking the vow of silence.” “Vow of silence?” “From the time of the breaking of the Babe to the Age of Adulthood, everyone must take the vow.” “What is the Breaking of the Babe.” “In the fourth or fifth year the babe is taken from its mother and sees her no more. One passes into the third age, that of adulthood, between the eleventh and thirteenth year.” “His tongue was cut out when he was a child then.” It was a statement, not a question. She answered anyway. “For certain.” “He thought of that man who’s image haunted him and he felt a twinge of pity for the monk who had once been an innocent boy. He thought too of the heated figure whos life he had taken, he had never taken. He had never seen his face, and thought that perhaps it was better that way, one less ghost to haunt him.” They rode all of the night, as fast as they dared to press the horse. The beast who’s burden had suddenly doubled, with a third passenger as ……………. inside it’s mother. The lowland forests were lit by the glow of the stars, the falling leaves of the trees, their whipping of the wind, entranced the girl    

150

and when the sun began to rise over the horizon behind them, it’s rays caught the multicolored leaves, the trees fire in the morning sun. The girl was struck with awe, believing that one vision of splendid light, of color, of the world on fire, the fire of life, of creation, that one moment’s sight was worth a lifetime of darkness. That simple sunrise on a cool autumn day atoning for all the sips committed against her. The child leapt inside her, responding to her overwhelming emotion, that bliss that comes from some chance encounter with the divine. The girl cried then, weeping with joy, her stinging eyes welling with tears, hurting from the unaccustomed brightness, yet unable to tear them from beauty before her. The girl looked toward the priest, her mouth forming the words. “Thank You”. They came low and in a whisper, yet to him, those two simple words of gratitude, lifted a veil of darkness from his soul allowing a single ray of that suns bright light to pierce his heart that had remained so cold and dark for so long. He smiled. Not a smile of dark humor of sarcasm, not of cynicism. But a deep, warm smile. The smile of peace and joy, gratitude and love. The smile of hope, hope long dead being reborn. Those two words of gratitude made every jot a pain worthwhile. Every laceration and bruise, every ………….. of suffering, even the black disease inside of him ; every bit of it he would endure again for those two words. They were tired, weary, as was the horse, yet they rode though the morning, both of their souls lifted out of darkness, from the bowels of the earth. The girl was happ, and the priest, he too was happy.

About midday they left the highway, heading off into the underbrush and growth of the forest. They followed a gampath away from the road, fighting through patches of thick briers, the thorns tugging on brown cloaks forcing the horse to be pulled stamping through the thicket. They came to small creek running through the woods. The water but a trickle running over rocks slowly pooling, filling tiny ponds. They drank deeply, relishing the fresh cool water ; the horse lapping greedily, its snoot in a small pond. They sat in the tall grass by the water, the priest rummaging through his pack to see what remained. The girl had packed a few crusts of bread and quantity of dried meat. The ate then, the bread stale, the meat strong and gamey, of what animal the priest dared not ask. Aside from the food, the priest was surprised to find the revolver and the shells for it and the rifle. The small gold cross on its fine hair thin chain was there, apparently put back after it had been discovered, perhaps because they had no reason to believe he would recover the bags. There still remained a few other supplies, but what was not there interested him. The books from the library were gone, as well as a map he had packed. And the brass windproof lighter was gone as well, along with its fluid. That was a heavy loss, for without it they had no way to make fire, but he was sure a solution would present itself eventually.They had a little time yet before a fire would be necessary, he knew thought that one would be necessary soon enough. The nights had begun lengthening since he had went underground, and he was sure the cold would soon be upon them. They lay then in the grass their bodies borrowing out …………….. in the thick brush, and they slept.

He let the thought pass, worrying more about their immediate pursuers than the inevitable cold.  

152 to end
152
They had been riding into the night. The world awash in the glow of the night sky. The girl had been staring up at the stars for sometime, their light highlighting her soft pale features as she looked up in wonder. 
	“What are they, the stars?” 
	The question was odd to him, this elementary knowledge he had taken for granted. The question pleased his as well, him being able to introduce this veritable child to the mysteries of the cosmos. 
	“They are hot ball of burning gas far out in space.c Their fires produce light that travels all the way across the universe, and land on us, here, now.” 
	She looks as if she didn’t understand a word of this, but rather than question further she continued to gaze in wonder, listening to his explanations, however strange they were. 
	“The sun is a star, so close that it warms and lights all of the earth.”  She thought about this for what seemed like a long time. 
	“Are there other people out there then? Other places like this?” 
	“Perhaps”
_______________________

	They rested a few hours during the day and rode all of the night, taking turns riding the weary horse, the mountains looming far upon the horizon. On the third night the priest saw the familiar yellow bridge is the distance. When they came upon the cracked overgrown exit, they followed it off the to the right. They had been riding hard, they and their horses weary, almost to the point of exhaustion. The priest decided they would rest finally. He had been looking over his shoulder more and more often, afraid that one of the times he would see them, the pursuers that he suspected were there. He had hoped that if any followed they would eventually weary of the chase, but as he progressed he realized that this was pure fantasy, wishful thinking. The trail they had left behind a child could follow, and he knew the monks would never give up the woman and child so easily. He believed that the Monk, that unholy abbot, would persue him to the ends of the earth. The priest had assuredly shamed him in front of his people, stolen from him. If he allowed this, he would jeopardize his own power, but more than that, their shared history seemed to bind their fates. 
	They were there, behind them, somewhere in the distance, and the priest was tired, tired of running and tired of looking over his shoulder. The girl had not mentioned any such fears of her own too absorbed in every wonder she was witnessing for the first time. If she did worry, she did not show it. Only her innocence and enchantment showed, whether by steely resolve or by ignorance the priest did not know. But like God, their pursuers would be there, or they would not, regardless of if they believed it. The priest did believe them there, and though he kept his peace in the matter he continued to look over his should. 
	Perhaps it was the town itself, haunted as it was. Perhaps it was merely his own mind, but his sense of foreboding was great, the imminence of danger pressing in on him. She asked him what was wrong but he shrugged her off, wishing away the conclusions of his own intuition. They followed the main street past the familiar office building, making a right at the grocery he had in once hid in so cowardly. They turned again in the alley behind the grocery, passing the familiar house adjoining it, its grass thick and tall as his waist. 
	He could see David then, swinging the lawnmower wildly around, blowing the fresh grass clippings all over the alley, Dinah dodging them as she danced to and fro, laughing. They stopped then, him staring at the rear of the house he had occupied for that brief happy time. The memory of Maria, sitting there on his back porch, her long black hair and radiant beauty, her soft smile and the unique way she used Spanish terms of endearment that rolled off of her tongue so sweetly. 
	It was the bittersweet memory of his first and only love, and with it too came the memory of his shame. He had called it cowardice for so long in his mind, but his heart of hearts suspected an even darker truth than even that. He suspected that he called it cowardice to assuage his feelings of guilt, for ultimately fear and cowardice were almost innate, uncontrollable. Yet the deeper and blacker truth was that he chose to flee for the certain chance of survival. He had perhaps coldly calculated the value of his love for those people and that lust for living that drove him, and that baser emotion had been victorious. But whether this were true or not, he did not know, though that cruel knowledge scared him. And regardless, he had failed his people, and they surely did not rise from their graves to question his motives, but again, maybe they did. 
	They tied the horse to the remains of the old rusted chainlink fence, removed the saddlebags and pushed through the grass to the warped wooden steps of the back porch. The wood bowed and creaked under their weight, the dry planks singing their age with every step. The backdoor opened before them, the moving air throwing long dead dust into the air, swirling in the moonlight. They moved through the dark kitchen into the living room, dimly lit through the large front window. The old comfortable recliner sat in its corner as if a lifetime had not passed since the priest had last seen it. He set his bags down and sat, sinking deep into it, pulling the smooth wooden handle on the side that quickly brought up the legrest and reclined the back with a loud metallic pop of a spring. The girl watched this with simple curiosity. He smiled broadly motioning to the couch. She sat, hesitantly at first, then allowing herself to relax as she fell into its comfort, almost laughing at this excess of luxury she had never known. 
	She laid then, snuggling up to a pillow, and was asleep almost instantly, her soft snores quiet like the purring of a cat. He sat there, watching her sleep for sometime before he drifted off in the midst of a prayer.
154
	Shortly before dawn he awoke with a start. A small boy was there, at the foot of the recliner pulling on the hem of his robe sharply. He stared at the boy for a moment, disoriented by his presence. The boy was dirty and ragged, with long unkempt hair and a dirty adult sized shirt on that looked like a dress on the child's rail of a body. It was one of the boys he had fed when he last passed this way, one half of the town's remaining inhabitants. The other half, the younger child, stood in the shadows by the door to the kitchen. Before he could say anything, the boy help up his left hand and with his fingers splayed moved each figure individually. He turned his right hand upside down and moved his index and middle fingers back and forth in a walking motion. The priest looked at him inquisitively not quite understanding. The boy then moved closer to him, alongside the recliner, reaching towards the priests head. The priest almost reacted defensively but he held still, playing out this odd scene. The boy reached past the priest’s face and grabbed the edge of the hood that was folded pack upon the brown cloak, pulling the hood up over the priest face. 
In an instant the priest understood the warning in the boys face, his heart quickening as his mind began to race. He sat up quickly, pushing the footrest of the recliner in beneath him. 
	
	“Where?” He whispered to the boy who looked at him without understanding. 	

	He walked across the room staying off to the side of and the large window, hiding himself behind the curtain. He slid over enough to peer out with one eye. Nothing moved. The boy came up beside him them, perhaps understanding his question suddenly and pointed up and in an arc in the direction of the bridge and the main street. He looked at the boy with half shut his eyes and gave him a nod of gratitude. He went over to where the girl lay on the couch. He shook her shoulder gently putting one finger to his lips as her eyes fluttered open. She saw the two boys for just a moment before they were gone, out the door, returned to the shadows. 

	“They’re here, your brothers.” 
	
	Her eyes widened at this. She sat up quickly, suddenly afraid. He grabbed his bags from where they sat by the recliner, reached in and withdraw the shiny silver revolver. He checked the safety, flicking it off, and pressed the gun into her hands. He pointed to the barrel. 
156
	“You point that end at whoever you need to kill, and you pull that lever there. Make sure you hold it firm and steady and pull that trigger hard until it does what God intended it to do. It will make a loud bang. Don’t let that frighten you.”  He wondered if any of that made sense to her, he thought maybe they should have had his conversation sooner, perhaps even practiced once or twice. 

	And as an afterthought he added. ” Wait until they are close, so you don’t miss, and repeat if necessary.” 

	He picked up his own gun and led her out the door, through the kitchen and into the backyard, moving quietly and quickly. He untied the horse and secured the saddlebags, and then looked at the girl hard. 

	“I’m going around that way”. He pointed to the right down the alley. “I’m going to draw them around that way. You are going to go that way.”  He pointed. 

	“Up that street is the main street with the ramp up to the bridge.” 

	“What’s the bridge.” He was exasperated, his anxiety growing by the second. 

	“Never mind. Do you remember the way we came?” 

	“Yes.” 

	“Go back onto the highway, but keep going the way we were going, towards the mountains.” She nodded her head, but he wasn’t sure she understood. 

	“Do you understood?” 

	“Yes” 

	“For certain?” 

	“Yes” 

	She did understand, he could see that now. She was just scared, and rightfully so. He was scared as well, and scared for her. He suddenly felt guilty for having taken her from her underground prison. How she would survive on her own, he did not know but it was to late for that now. 

	“Stay hidden until the shooting starts. Once you start riding don’t stop” 

	Her eyes were wide with fear. He reached in the saddlebag and retrieved the remaining shells for the rifle, ignoring, trying to ignore, the tears welling in her eyes. 

	“Go now.”  He turned around, cutting through the alley behind the grocery, willing himself to not look back, tears moistening his own eyes. The priest eased his way along the rear of the grocery, squeezing between the wall and the rusted green dumpster that sat by the buildings rear door to the alley. He approached and rounded the corner of the building, turning quickly, smoothly, aiming the rifle out in front of him, prepared to shoot. 

	The side street was empty of anything save abandoned cars who’s chrome bumpers reflected the moonlight where they were not buried in the grass. He crept up the edge of the building to the next corner, peeking his head out slowly. With one eye he took in the scene. 

	Five hooded figures approaching down the main street, fanned out, perhaps twenty feet between each of them. They were moving slowly, cautiously. The only sound the light ruffle of their course brown robes as they walked in the still night. They had no animals that he could see, but they may have left them further back or on the highway so as to enter the town stealthily. What they did have though, were guns. Each carried a weapon, either a shotgun of a rifle. He could not tell from this distance in this light, but he guessed it did not matter. He did not know what he had expected. He suddenly remembered something he had read somewhere, that the key to happiness was a matter of modulating one’s expectations. He almost laughed a loud at this, this random idiosyncratic thought from the depth of his mind, surfacing at a time of heightened anxiety. 
158
	His thoughts were racing he realized, as was his heart, his adrenaline. Every fiber of his body preparing for fight or flight. And another thought. A black thought from some cold dark part of him. Flight. Flight, because they don’t really want you, they want the girl and the baby. You are nothing to them, you were just a character in the  abbot’s puppet show. Turn around and walk down the street way from them. Hide in a basement. They will find her and leave you to your fate. Run now while you still…. 

	He willed himself to move. He rounded the corner, raised the rifle and pulled the trigger. The first of the monks fell as the loud report pierced the quit night. He swung the rifle to his right, aiming at a second hooded figure, this one now running, and with another sharp crack of the rifle the man fell toward in mid stride, dead upon the pavement. 

	The priest stepped back around the corner of the grocery just as the return fire began to pepper the air, chunks of brick and mortar flying as the bullets tore pieces of rock from the building’s facade. He stepped backwards, gun ready, waiting for them to chase him down the side street, hoping to draw them that way away from the main street where he hoped the girls would be making for the bridge. He backed along the edge of the grocery, across the alley and passed the house Maria, Sarah and Dinah had once occupied. He thought he saw a figure up ahead by the corner of the grocery where he had been a few moments ago. 

	The priest let off a shot sending splinters of a mortar flying, and reloaded as he crossed the side street and ducked behind and old sedan. He was halfway down the block now and the car he hid behind pinged as bullets tore holes in its antique sheet metal. His plan was working, the three headed figures had followed him down the side street where the bridge and it ramps could not be seen. And as if in mockery of this thought, he heard clear and unmistakable, the whinnying of the horse, frightened by the gunfire. The monks had heard it was well. 

	Two of monks stayed huddled behind a blue hatchback halfway down the street, firing shots in his direction, while the third figure turned and ran back the way they had come, to look for the source of that animal cry. The priest was breathing hard, his heart hammering its syncopated beat in his ears. There was only one option. He stood, rounding the rear of the car, and began striding up the street, rifle raised, firing at every hint of movement from behind the hatch back, blowing out its window, reloading as he walked. His face was set, stony and cold and his pace did not falter, nor did his gun. Its  own hammering matching the beat of his heart. The crack and boom. Its recoil slamming his shoulder, again and again and again. 
	
	He continued towards the car, one of the figures behind it falling, gun clattering to the pavement, the other standing, firing, the first bullet tearing through him below his left shoulder, then another below it. Still he walked, close, closer, until he was by the hood of the car, the monk standing, the moonlight revealing the naked fear on the man's face, for but a second, because then there was no face, the bullet from the rifle at point blank range tearing straight through him. Then the priest was running, running around the front of the store, across the weedy parking lot, running, the blood dripping from multiple holes in his flesh. Everything fading before him, the night suddenly darkening as if the stars had been blacked out. Then he was falling and everything went black.
160
	The girl led the horse up the side street in the direction of the bridge. She held the heavy revolver in her left hand, unsure of what to do with the weapon. She edged into the last yard of the house behind the gas station and waited, the distracted hose greedily chewing the grass they were standing in. She was scared. She was scared for the man and for her baby. She did not fear so much her own, death her survival instinct (rather) was centered upon her unborn child, though she would rather die than go back to that miserable underground ; and she would not have……….. baby born into that world, nameless and terrible. The man had given her the greatest of gifts, and it her life ended now, and it may well, it would have been worth it and more. He had show her the beauty of the world, the majesty of the heavens, the love of a friend, and he had given her the courage to be free. The first of the reports shattered the silence. Then another. The horst began to stomp and bray, prancing wildly in fear. And then the gunfire coming fast and quick. She was rubbing the horses back, attempting to sooth the jittery animal, and then it cried, loud and long, it’s horse’s cry. She had to move. Now, She pulled the reigns hard, but the horse pulled back, anxious and uncooperative. She putted harder. The beast began to move slowly, still stamping its feet and yanking back on the reins. She was facing the horse, whispering to the beast, urging it on. It took a few more tentative steps, she turned then holding the reins, and         

162
…………… he was. He had snuck up behind her as she attended the horse. He was grinning at her, his teeth bared, animal like, his pale ghostly face lit by the moon. He was holding his rifle across his rifle across his chest, not even bothering to point it at her, this non threat. She was paralyzed for but a second and she began to raise the revolver in her hand. His movement was so fluid, so quick she could not react. He met her raising hand with the butt of his rifle in a hard downward blow, knocking the gun from her hand and breaking the bones of her fingers. The pain blossomed in her hand, her fingers bleeding where her skin was split. Her tears were the involuntary result of the pain and she tried to surpress them. This monster, she know, would feed on them, on her feet. She backed away from him, dropping the reins of the horse, but he advanced, slowly watching her pace. “You’ve been a bad little whore”. His voice was high and nasally, he kept advancing. She was hoping to run, but she know he was to quick. She wondered if she could force him to shoot her, she wondered if it would be quick, would it hurt to badly. She kept backing up, through the grass, and something was under her feet, a conctrete step, part of a sidewalk up to the house. She fell backwards, landing on her backside in the grass. He kept advancing. “I might just punish you myself right now whore.” There was evil, lecherous look on his face as he moved towards her sprawled in the grass. 

The crack the pistol made was deafening, the sound so close, so loud, the ………………… , the muzzle so bright, her senses where overwhelmed momemtarily as she went blind and deaf for an instant. The bright white receded from her vision and she saw the monk, on his knees clutching his chest with read stained hands. He fell forward, his head cracking hard against the cement step she had just tripped on. Directly behind above her a boy was holding the revolver with both hands aiming where the monk had been. He let the gun drop, looked at the girl and said “Bang”.

The sun was high in the sky when the priest opened his eyes, its bright rays shining straight, down stinging them. He was laying in the grass of the parking lot, a small circle of the tall weeds where beaten down providing him with small area to lay in. He attempted to sit up, but the slightest movement sent pain spiraling out from the wounds below his shoulder. The wounds had been dressed with clean white strips of cloth that were stained a deep crimson. He stared up at the sky, trying to piece together his present circumstances ; then looked lift and right, turning his head slowly, looking for his gun. Surely they would have taken, or at least removed it from his reach. He wondered if the girl had gotten away, he prayed that she had. Then he heard the approach, through the grass, footsteps brushing aside the high grass. It was the girl. She was carrying a small blue plastic ……… filled with water, smiling deeply at him when she saw he was awake. She come and sat beside him, potting the bucket down and struggling with the awkward weight of her own swollen belly. She touched his face gently with her soft pale hand, letting her fingers the deep lines of his. He smiled back at her, words unnecessary. A gentle love passing between them, the love a daughter for her father, father for child.

164
It was growing dark when he tried to stand again. The last rays of the late autumn sun highlighted the faded facades of buildings along main street, the rich fall colors of the land enriching every detail and every corner. He had lost blood, a good bit, and when he arose, these deep hoes began to fade to black, but the girl steadied him, holding his arm and his blood pressure built, bringing back his vision and its vividness. She led him by the arm, around the corner of the grocery, down the alley past the rusted green dumpster and into his old yard. He mounted the steps with care, the wood screaming in pain so he would have to. He fell into the recliner with relief and rested. The girl brought him food, ancient canned fruits and processed fake mear, which they ate plenty of. He bade her to gather a few things they would need, which he described details, her returning with this or that item. She had found lighter that still functioned, clothes for them both and a sleeping bag. She also found a few books that he had kept in his room so long ago and these she sat inspecting with great care, admiring the tiny symbols that were so arranged neatly upon each page. “I have seen one of these before” “You have?” “Yes, the abbot bad a few like this. My sisters and I gossiped about it, we knew they were symbols of some type, but for what we could only debate and guess at. I always they ………….. that it was a way to talk to the gods”. She looked embarrassed at this. “Perhaps I would have believed the same if I were you.” The priest responded. He reached for the book and she handed it to him. He turned it over in his hands, remembering …………… The symbols combine to mean words the same words we speak. Each book uses the words to tell a story. “And what this book tell?” He smiled he had hoped she would ask. “Would you like to hear?” She smiled, clapping, laughing her hands ………… a child. “Yes, yes I would”. And he read to her, the story of a farawayland that children travelled to through a wardrobe and a courageous lion who ruled there, and he slept. Reading again when he was awake, his body healing while he slept. She loved the story, the mystical words with their secret meanings, and when he had finished that book he read her another. The thought of leaving seemed to never pass her mind, but he knew they must leave soon, for the child was heavy oin her belly and he would be unable to deliver the child in his condition, let alone care for it. He dreaded the thought of the road, the imminent cold of winter, but a week after their stand, he decided they must go.

The girl poked up their gear, their food and water, throwing in an old book. She hoped he would read to her. They sat out in the morning, the days was chilly, the winters winds on the horizon. The priest walked for a while, letting the …………… ride him trying to step with his legs only, attempting to keep his upper body still to avoid the pain of movement. They climbed the ramp to the bridge and near the top he thought for a moment that he saw the white of skull ………………from the earth. It was a stone and nothing more. He passed the old blue pickup truck again and thought of that end his friends had met there on that spring day so long ago. They moved on, the priest looking back only to bid farewell to those ghosts that had followed him his entire lifetime. The sky was bright but the air was cold as they rode into the low farmlands that ran to the base of the mountains.

166

They built a fire that night in a field, of to the side of the road. They curled up to it to keep warm the cold coming then, creeping its way into their ……………….., deep to the bone. They huddled together, catching each other cast off warmth, praying the morning would come quickly, bringing with it the heat of the sun. They were looking up at the sky, the two of them, shivering. “Tell me about the stars again. Her voice was quivering, teeth chattering. He lay there pondering staring up at the numinous points of light in the sky, there soft glow falling upon their faces. Everything on earth and in the sky is made of elements and those elements were made in the furnaces that are stars.” “So, we come from the stars”. “Yes”, “And when we die”, “our” bodies return to the earth, and eventually the sun will consume the earth and spit us back out into the heavens. “So, well go when we die”. “The …………… persisted at the heavens.” “Mm… hmm” He said, deep in thought. “From ashes to ashes, stardust to stardust.” The next day they past the burnt out shell of the farm house. The priest kept his eyes on the road, ignoring the charmed remains that shrank in the distance as they headed towards the mountains. The days growing colder and the pain in his shoulder increasing. He touched it periodically, wanting to pull back the cloth to examine the wound, afraid of what he might see. The girl noticed. She saw his ………., the worried expression in his face, the look that was there when he brought his fingers to where the wounds were, and that look when he brought those same fingers to his nose. She saw how even in the growing cold he would sweat, and how he would put his palm to his forehead to clock his temperature.

She role while he walled, the weight of the baby in her womb bearing down upon the girl, the infection in his wounds now growing, taking their toll on him. He said nothing to the girl of the festering bullet holes, how there was a blackness to them and a foul smell, but he did not need to say anything. She knew and she offered the house again and again but she was unable to walk and they both ………… it. They carried on like this, the priest walking …………… and ……………… as the days progressed. They were almost at the mountains now, but he did not know how much longer he could go on. He was feverish and his steps became unsteady, stumbling. He knew they were approaching the place of the wolves and a dread was growing in his, they would surely come again and he was ill prepared for them. That night the snow came, the flakes fluttering down softly, coating everything, the world bright and now and wonderful to the girl. She would hold out her hand and let the tiny Hakes land in her palm, nad ……………., the lick the fresh droplet of water. He watched her, her joy and awe, but his own heart was full of fear, for in the distance they howled. He spent the night feverish, restless and unremembered nightmares.    

168
They had barely camp in the morning when he realized he could no longer go on. He was dragging his feet, moving with exaggerated slowness, the fever clouding his thoughts. He stopped in the middle of the highway, already beginning its ascent up the mountain. “This is as far as I go”. “What?” “I can’t go on anymore.” He had made his decision. She would never make it if she waited on him. “You ride, I’ll walk.” She offered but he shook his head book …………… emphatically. “I won’t make it anyway”, but you can. If you ride and you can make the town in two days, but you need to at least get through the mountains. “Please, we’ll stop. I’ll wait for you to get better, like in the town.” He just shook his head again. “There is no time, your baby is coming. If it comes now, we’ll all die.” She tried to argue with him, but he would have none of it. In the end, she cried, she cried as he told her to ride hard though the night until she was past the mountains. He told her of the tunnel and its darkness, and he told her of the sign to look for, drawing the symbols in the dirt that would be on the sign, and she told her of the woman and the boy, and she cried all the while, and she was still crying when he kissed her forehead and bid her farewell. 250 GO TO PRIEST DIES I 

169

He walked a few feet into the thick woods, gathering a few bits of wood, as much as his ravaged body would allow and returning to the highway he arranged the wood in a small pile and set his flame to the dried leaves tucked beneath the kindling. He blew gently on the growing flame and it spread slowly engulfing the bits of dried branch and radiating its heats towards him. He sat back against the concrete divider, soaking in the fires warmth. The light was fading, the sun having taken its leave of the sky, leaving only pale glow of the brightest of the stars to herald the approaching night. He was sweating his brow wet, glistening though his body was cold, shivering , a child overtaking him. He wrapped his arms around his body, hugging himself, trying to conserve his heat. Then wiping the sweat from his blow, he leaned back away from the fire, its heat suddenly becoming to much, the fever chasing away the chill making his head swoon. The mountain air was cool, clear and the smell of the fire ticked his nose, bringing with it the powerful memories at his youth. Suddenly his grandfather was before him, crouching by the fire with a stick. His lips moved, words formed, travelling across that infinite space from the land of the dead ; the words never reached his ears though, dying in that space between two worlds, that space that was rapidly thinning for the priest, as his disease ravaged body prepared to drag his mind, his soul into that eternal abyss. He blinked. The apparition was gone and he was left only with the firelight and the coming darkness. From the distance he heard a howl, deep and guttural. An animalistic song of songs arising from the dark soul of a beast in love with the dawning moon. He coughed in reply, a deep backing cough his body ………… as he brought up the crimson …………, spitting it on the ground. The red black mucus cost upon the snow like some final judgement upon the world. A last act of defiance. But it was gone as quickly as it had been decreed, the snow falling from the sky in answer, covering all. Blanketing even the blackest of sins in its thick white robe, hiding all of the world while beneath, the ear prepares for regeneration.

He heard the wolves again, closer now, and he thought that he should be afraid, but he was not. That base emotion designed so by millions of years of evolution to protect, to foster one’s own survival  ; suddenly absent in this final hour as an easy peace filled him. His mind hazy, beset by the fever burning through his body. His own thoughts seemed to be coming from a distance, a strange feeling of dissociation washing over him, the rational part of his mind shrinking to a whisper, a faraway whisper telling him to run, to hide that they were coming for him. But that whisper was so far away, receding in the distance, the cold wind pulling the words away, already vacant of meaning. He thought abstractly that he was in arrears. That this final act was long overdue, and they had finally come to collect. The guilt leapt into his mind, reminding him of how much he owed, and now it had come time to pay to pay with interest. And a second thought, a newer thought. That he had paid already, that perhaps their was

171

but one price for all and he had finally made good.

He heard the wind then, and he heard the fire, and he heard too the snow. And he knew it was the last song he would hear. He whispered then to the night to the stars to Dinah and Sarah to Maria to them all. “Let all be forgiven”.

He reached into his pocket and removed the small book the girl had found in the house. He turned it over in his hads, the faded black cover, worn with age. It had not been opened in many years. He opened it now, leafing through the thin pages, finding the story of that man so harassed by a wager between God and Satan. He read it ……………, glancing towards the sky, sending his prayer upwards, hoping his God could hear him, betting he could.

I wish you would hide me in the world of the dead;
let me hidden until your anger is over,
and then set a time to remember me.
If a man dies, can he come back to life?
But I will wait for better times,
Wait till this time of trouble is ended
Then you will call and I will answer
And you will be pleased with me your creature
Then you will watch every step I take
but you will not keep track of my sins,
You will forgive them and put them away;
You will wipe out all the wrongs I have done.
He tried to continue the words blurring on the page, his feverish mind and array of confused thought. He though perhaps his head was on fire, burning up his body at war with the disease losing. Through the haze of his mind he thought of the girl. Her hair so bright, skin pale but radiant. He was taking to her then, telling her not to stop in the tunnel, not to be afraid, it would come out the otherside no matter how dark it seemed, and then it was Dinah he was taking to with that same golden hair and those some deep blue eyes. He was hot, so hot and he was no longer on the road but he could still the wolves closer now and the woman and the boy were there and the woman was asking him about the sickness and he was telling her, what was he telling her? He couldn’t remember, neither could he remember where he had put the lighter. Where had he put it? He tried feeling his pockets, but his hands felt just like two balloons, and then he heard them again, and they were there, surrounding him their piercing cries echoing through his mind.

173
Their teeth bared glistened bright in the moonlight reflected off of the bright snow. Except he saw that it wasn’t snow, it was sand. And the demon cries fades as he walked, leaving those prophets of the moon to bray at an empty highway. Quieter and quieter did they become as the sand squeezed between his naked toes and the sound of the surf reached his ears. He was walking, slowly, surely. The girl was there, not this girl, but the first girl, the girl from ago. She was holding his hand, her small soft fingers curled around his, leading him. It was bright, so bright, the sunlight reflecting off of the sand. He shielded his eyes with his free hand, squinting into the sun. He thought he saw figure in the distance and as their steps brought them closer he could make them out. His grandfather was there ; David was there, Sarah too. They were all there he saw becoming to him, the light behind them so bright. He turned his head for an instant, perhaps with one final moment of doubt, or fear, or perhaps to see what had become of the wolves, but is mattered not. There were only there footprints, already being swept away by the sea, leaving the sand fresh and new as if they had never passed that way. He turned his head toward again to face the light, now so bright he was unable to see, yet he knew the girl was there beside him, guiding him. And he asked her where they were going. “Home” Her voice was soft, soothing, coming through the brightness. “We’re going home”.

The girl rode. She rode as fast and as hard as her swollen belly would allow, the pounding of the horses hooves hitting pavement jarring her body. The snow continued to fail, the large flakes falling upon her, dampening her cloak as the melted. The cars were fewer as she ascended the mountain, the road winding its way up an through a pass. She looked about her as she rode, seeing the beauty of the mountain for the first time, the rocky crags that jotted into the clear blue sky. The earth stabbing at the heavens, displaying its ferocity. She wondered at the pines whose deep green boughs bent under the weight of the pure white snow, and at the light brown creatures that she saw prancing playfully in the snow, stopping only to stare at her as she rode by.

By the time she reached the tunnel, the sun had dropped below the mountain, the sky awash in hues of red and orange. She stopped then, at the gaping mouth of the tunnel, her fear growing. The priest had said that this was different ; it would take her through the mountain, not into some …………….. labyrinth inhabited by beings, spit from hell. She made her way forward, slowly, fighting the anxiety, willing herself to move forward. She wanted to turn, to go back, to flee ; but the baby would come soon she knew. She knew she had to find his village and the cottage where the woman lived. If not for the child she would have gone back. The prospect of her own death scaring her less than that which was before her. She would have been content to spend the.     

175
priests last moments with him, perhaps dying with him. She had seen death and it did not scare her. In the few days she had travelled with the priest, she was more alive, bad lived more than she ever had before. She know too that she must pass that down to the one who lived in her, that beautiful gift bestowed upon her. She heard the braying of the wolves far off in the distance, giving one last look in that direction, she spurred the horse entering the black mouth of the mountain.

When the dim light from the dying day would reach no further, she dismounted and led the hose through the darkness, polling gently on the reins while keeping her free hand on the wall, the old concrete cool and damp beneath her fingers. She had walked many miles of tunnel a hundred times over and this one was no different in that regard, her eyes adept at perceiving shapes with but a ………. of light. And then even that whisp of light was gone and the darkness engulfed. She was not scared of the dark, yet her heart pounded harder, her blood rushing faster. Nay, darkness never had scared her, what scared her were those creatures that took refuge in the dark. What scared her was the notion that this tunnel would lead her down into the belly of the world, where underground tracks led from one subterranean hell to another, and ministers of a dark God held court.
She bit back her fear and made her way toward, leading the horse. Time seemed to stand still, to evaporate in the tunnel, as if here, a singularity existed, the massiveness of the mountain around her pulling time to a slow crawl so that when she was finally spit out, a thousand years would have passed.
She finally saw a dim light ahead and she quickened her pace to meet it. Time speeding up again the years falling away. When she stepped out of the tunnel, sometime later, she walked in the light of the moon, its soft glow magnified by the snow, the stars spackling the heavens. She mounted the horse and rode on.

She rode well into the night. The hunter had moved most of the way across the sky when she took refuge in the backseat of an ancient …………. She was exhausted, as was the horse, and when she rested her head on the dusty old interior of the car, she thought she heard the distant bowl of those strange lunatic predators, but she was not sure. She thought of the priest then, and she thanked him silently. She thought that if her child were a boy, she would give him name ; And she thought too that if she bore a girl, she would name it for her mother. Dinah whose face she could scarily remember. She slept then, peaceful and undisturbed as the stars made their progressive march across the sky. 

177 
…………………… the next day, the horse cutting through the snow, its breath turning to steam in the cool winter air. ……………….. before her was beautiful and she looked upon it with wonder. When the soon dropped below the horizon the continued on, knowing innately that she was close, so very close to her destination. She thought of the woman and the boy that he had told her of, and she suddenly was afraid that they might not accept her, this stranger and her child.

She did not know how long she rode into the night before she saw the shiny green sign with its strange symbols, …………….. reflected in the moonlight. The symbols that matched the priest had drawn for her in the snow. She followed the snow covered pathe around the under the highway, anxious, knowing that the end of the journey and the beginning of another was before her. She slowed then, her mind racing, fear and excitement mingling. She followed of another was before her. She slowed then, her mind racing, fear and excitement mingling. She followed the lane until she saw the path opposite the long yellow automobile that toward over the rest. When she turned down the path she saw the light before her. A faint glow through the window of the small cottage. She wanted to laugh and cry and sing ; she was her, full of hope, at her new home, should they ………………… her, but she instinctively knew she would. They would welcome her, as a friend, as family. ………………. Dismounted the horse, who had walked that path so many times before and approached the wooden ………………. stepping carefully on the snows stone pavers. She knocked and the door was open to her.

Let this be the End
Let this be the Last Song
Let this be the End
Let all be forgiven.
   
